Welcome back to the channel.

And today we will see that how configuration property is useful for us.

So but let's first see the problem.

Then we will come back to this topic.

So let's first see what the issue with the add the rate value annotation.

We have already covered this right.

So at the rate value is good for injecting a single property.

But it becomes problematic as configuration grows.

So we know that we have certain properties in application dot property file okay.

And with add the rate value we can inject that property into our Java code okay.

How like this.

Let's say I have a class Dbconnection okay.

And I have this field string username.

So they're in Application.properties there would be one config like app dot username, okay, and whatever

the value would be, so that I am injecting from my property file to this field like this.

Okay, so we have already covered this.

So we have to use this annotation at the rate value.

And then we have to use this placeholder and the property name what we have to inject okay.

Now the problem is that if there are let's say a group of configuration which you have to use, then

it's always 1 to 1 mapping.

So if you have to inject ten values, you have to do ten times at the rate value at the rate value at

the rate value.

Likewise.

Okay.

So one thing is it's too much duplication of add value annotation or duplication in the sense is not

like uh, same configuration.

I mean, you have to use a lot of this annotation.

Let's say if you know you are working in a big tech organization, definitely you know that 100,000

like these are very, very commonly faced challenge in these tech companies.

Like configuration continuously grows and lot of things are configuration driven itself.

Okay.

So we have a huge number of configuration.

Now if you have to do 1 to 1 mapping, just see how many times or how many places we have to use this

annotation okay.

So that is the first problem.

The second problem is there is no way to validate validate in the sense like I want to say that hey,

okay, this password which is coming from the application dot property, it should be present.

It should be greater than ten and less than 25 in size.

There is no way to validate or put restriction and top of it.

Okay, so once you have got the value from the application dot properties.

After that, you have to manually do the validation that whatever the value I receive, it's valid or

not.

Okay.

So consider this two major problem which at the root value has.

And now at the rate configuration properties comes into the picture.

Okay.

So now it would be easy to understand why at the rate configuration properties is very popular among

industry.

Okay.

So it maps configuration from Application.properties into Java object.

This is important not to a one field to a Java object.

Okay.

So it makes our configuration is structured, reusable and validated.

How?

Once you have the Java object, you can reuse it.

You can pass it to different classes.

Correct.

You can have validation on top of it.

How?

I will also tell you.

Okay.

So validation is very easy through annotations.

Okay.

And it's now a structured.

We have a proper Java like you can group together particular let's say these are my uh invoice configuration.

These are my sales configuration.

So you can group in a Java object like configuration depend upon certain logical grouping you can do.

Okay.

So we can create some structured configuration uh, which can be validated which can be reused.

So now see this example application dot properties.

So here I have certain configuration like user dot name, certain name, user dot user dot active.

So now how can I use it.

So now see this we have to create one Java class.

Okay.

So let's say I created one user configuration because I want to group all the configuration related

to user into one class okay.

Into one object.

So I created a class user configuration I annotated with at the root component.

So I am telling that hey spring you create an object for this.

Okay.

Now I am also adding the annotation at the configuration properties okay.

So whenever you add this annotation there is something called configuration binding.

So its task is to bind between application dot properties and your Java object.

Okay.

So it helps in binding.

Okay.

So now I am adding this annotation at the rate configuration properties.

And I give the prefix any property start with user.

So any property start with user is fall under this.

So it's like user dot stress.

So it will catch all.

And it will try to map each application dot property into this field.

Now.

Okay.

So now this is clear.

Now I have to create a field.

So one is like name.

So I created the exact same name okay.

So generally okay there is certain relaxation.

Let's say here you have is hyphen enabled something like this.

So you can here create is enabled camel case.

Okay.

So these are allowed okay.

You won't face any problem that if you have used underscore here or hyphen here you you can't use like

how you will use here.

You also have to use underscore here.

No okay.

So if you use a camel case properly it would be able to do proper mapping.

But I would always recommend that try to make a same name.

So same name so that the mapping would be like we are 100% sure okay.

Because see this mapping is not controlled by us.

It is done by configuration binding.

So it might be possible that uh, it not able to bind certain property.

Okay.

So now here, if you see that I keep the same name.

So this name would get bind to this one.

This age will get bind to this field and this active get bind to this boolean okay.

So now what will happen when you start an application when you start an application?

Let's say we have annotated with at the rate component.

So means spring will create an empty bean.

First it will create an empty bean.

We have already discussed the life cycle of a bean in the starting of the series, if you recall it.

Okay, so first spring create an empty bean because using default constructor.

Now once empty bean is created, now okay.

And now the configuration binding during application startup only I'm saying configuration binding.

What it will do is it will try to fill up these values.

So during empty bean these all have default values.

Name would be let's say null age would be zero.

active would be false.

These are all default values.

Same.

Okay.

Now configuration binding would bind.

Would read the application or property.

Okay.

And try to do the binding.

Okay.

Try to fill up this value.

Using what.

Using setter method.

Okay.

So we need to have a getter and setter okay.

Configuration binding.

Is you gonna use setter method to fill up these values using application dot properties.

Okay.

Since we have already done at the rate component, bean was already present.

But it's an empty bean means all it has default values and configuration binding.

Now calling setter method to update these values through application dot properties.

Okay.

Now whatever the user configuration class you have created or been you have created, you can simply

inject it into whichever class you want.

Okay.

And use like a normal Java object like I am using user configuration dot get h get name is active and

here you can see that I am able to print it.

Okay, so this is how simple it is now.

Also you can see that you can properly like group the configurations logical grouping.

You can do you can reuse it okay.

You don't have to create another class for you reusing it again and again once you have created it.

Now you can auto wired it anywhere in the code base you want okay.

One more advantage of this is that you can handle nested complex configuration nested complex.

Now here if you see the first thing this is simple.

We have already seen that.

Now see this to what I am doing here is user dot.

So this would be handled by my this configuration.

Okay here I have put at the right configuration properties prefix equals to user.

So this configuration or this class configuration binding would be used to handle all user dot stress.

Because this is the prefix user.

Okay.

So for now any configuration starting with user dot configuration binding going to use this class.

Now here if you see I have address dot city address dot country.

So means we can create address as an object.

And these two can be field inside it.

So that's where I have done.

Okay.

So here what I have done is I have created address config one nested class.

Okay.

Within this user configuration.

Within this class there is a nested class we are creating and okay, I gave a name address config and

it has two fields city and country.

So I have the same naming I have used.

So okay, it's getter and setter and getter and setter of all this one okay.

And one thing is that I have specifically made it static a static nested class you can think of like

why static?

Why not non-static?

If you remember in the Java series we have already covered this nested class.

Okay.

So nested class can be of static non-static okay.

So why specifically here we have to use static.

So the thing is how spring manages the bean.

So see this flow.

With that you will get an answer generally like why static.

We have to create okay.

In this case whenever we are trying to do configuration binding only in case I'm telling you, whenever

we are trying to do configuration binding.

Okay.

Um, in this case we always create a static nested class.

Reason is first string creates user configuration bean because it at the rate component.

So user will create this empty bean.

Okay.

Now it will see a field address configuration.

Okay.

So it now this let's see this.

Okay.

Now what it will do once it's create an empty bean.

After that I'm saying empty bean is created.

Now configuration binder got invoked.

Now it is using the setter methods to uh set name age active from the application dot properties.

Okay.

Now binder sees that, uh address dot config.

Now it has to Update the field of this.

Okay.

Now what it will do is it uses internally reflection and try to initiate the type address config using

the default no arg constructor.

So internally binding calls the.

So it has to create an object of first address config.

It has to create an object of this and after that it uses it calls it setter method.

Okay.

And to create an object of it it call the default constructor.

Default constructor okay.

Now understand that when you are not defining it static, let's say it is non-static.

What if you can recall from the from our Java series?

If you are following that whenever we create a nest uh, nested class and it's a non-static.

What is the default constructor?

Default constructor generally is your address config and it takes a parameter of your.

Parent class.

User configuration.

Let's say you see.

So this is the default constructor which generally added even though I haven't written this constructor

internally.

The default constructor it add is this not the default constructor with no argument?

This don't get added for the nested class for non-static, this is the default constructor added, and

if you can recall, we used to call it that hey, user configuration object dot new and then your address

config like this okay, so internally it always pass the reference of your parent object to here okay.

So one thing we are clear that when we are using non-static then default constructor which get added

is which.

Take a reference of the parent object.

Okay, but the binder reflection.

Try to invoke the no arg constructor.

Now if there is.

If this is non-static, no arg means constructor, which do not take any argument that doesn't even

exist, so it will not work.

Your binding will fail.

Your binding will fail.

Your binder will fail.

So that's why we have make it static.

So when you make it static means it is not associated with your parent class.

Okay.

And then the default constructor which got added is the no arg constructor.

Okay.

So your address config and the constructor which don't take any argument that will get added.

Okay.

And that's all here.

Binder able to work.

So that's why it is always created a static nested object.

Okay.

So yeah.

Now come back to this one.

Let's say I have a user inside this address dot user dot address dot country.

So what I did is I created address as an object and all later one it's a field inside a address.

Okay.

And since this is inside the user I created a nested static nested class okay.

And you can easily use it like there is like no problem at all.

Like how we are going to create an object.

Simple.

In that way you can use it.

So this is one way of handling the nested complex configuration.

Now we can also handle the configuration as list.

Okay, see this one.

Now we have already seen this one.

The simple one.

Object one.

So this is object.

This is simple direct mapping.

Now this is we are telling you the list okay.

So list.

I am telling you the two flavor list of string.

List of object.

So let's see first the list of string.

So let's say your configuration looks like this.

User dot role zero admin user dot roles one editor.

Likewise you have this.

So the same at the red component I want spring to create an object at the red configuration properties

and prefix user.

So all the anything is starting with user dot ultimately comes to this class.

Okay so name age active.

And this one we have already seen okay.

So this is its static nested class.

We have already seen.

Now this is the last one.

So what's the field name roles.

Okay.

And what values generally putting a string.

Okay.

So simply I put list of string and I put its getter and setter method.

Okay.

It will automatically bind zero one in the same order to this one.

Similarly here if you see user.

Now here I have codes zero dot name code zero enrolled.

True.

Similarly I have codes one dot name course one dot enroll.

Okay so now here if you see course you can visualize like course is an object which has name and enroll

fields.

And we have zero one.

So two objects of it.

Okay.

So it's an array of course.

So it's an array of object Okay.

So this is the example.

So now here if you see the list of codes now again the course would be static nested class.

So static nested class here in this one.

Okay.

So it is inside a user.

And I already told you why it need to be static.

Okay.

So now what two fields it has name and enroll.

So I have the same field name name and enroll its getter and setter and ultimately the getter and setter

for this one.

So it will be able to do proper mapping.

So here here I am using it.

User configuration dot get roles get zero get one.

It would be the same order.

You will get admin editor.

Similarly courses I am printing get codes, get zero its name and the get one get name.

So Java spring boot the same order.

Okay, so we can also bind the list in application dot properties to a list in Java object.

Similarly configuration as map.

Now here if you see see this one.

So we have already seen different uh here again this is just to remind this is simple direct mapping.

This is object.

This is your list.

And now we are seeing the map.

So now see this one user dot preference dot theme user dot preference dot user dot preference dot timezone.

Let's say your requirement is you want to store in a map is like theme dark language Ian.

So it's a string comma string.

Let's say you want to store like this Then even this, this.

Now you can say that here.

Can you see that can with any other way.

Can you handle it without even map.

So here if you see user dot.

So this class gonna this prefix class gonna handle it okay.

Now you see that preference dot theme preference dot language preference dot time zone.

You can say that hey I can create an object of preferences.

And these are all fields within a preference.

That's what we did for the object.

Yes you can do that also okay.

And if you want you can also handle through a map.

So this preference become your map name.

So here I created a map string comma string and preferences.

This become my map field name.

And this is key this value key value key value okay.

So now here if you see just getter and setter now it will bind like this.

Become your key.

This is value.

This is key.

This is value.

This is key.

This is value.

That is also possible.

But if you want to use as an object, create a nested class and static nested class and create a preference

as an object.

That is also possible like what we did for the address.

Okay.

But alternatively you can also create a key like this.

So this is your map field name and this is your become your key value.

And this is how I am able to use it.

So this is my map right.

Get preference.

Get key name theme okay.

So it works similarly map of an object.

So this is here.

If you see it's a map string comma string.

So we can also extend it to the map of an object.

So see this is an example User dot okay, so anything is starting with user going to ultimately to the

user configuration because that's the prefix.

So that's till now we are clear.

Now here if you see what the configuration look like locations dot home dot city locations dot home

dot country location dot office dot location dot office dot country.

Okay, so what do you see here.

So here if you see this location.

Can be our map field name okay so I created first thing is map field name okay.

Now here if you see this becomes my like string home office.

So my map is like.

Home.

And now I am creating an object which has city, country, city, country.

Okay, then I have a key office.

Then I have, let's say this is an object office dot city office dot country.

So I have an object which has this city country.

Okay.

So this is just like you can also handle through an object.

But I want to handle through a map.

So like this we can do that.

So this become my map.

Whatever the map I am going to create its field name.

Then these become my key.

And internally this become like an object which has this values.

So this is how I did it.

Like map string comma address config.

So here I already have an address config right from previous one.

Okay I already have a static nested class.

So address config has this city and country.

That's why I use the same field, city and country.

Okay, so I am creating a map of string comma address config.

So string gonna be this one either home or either office okay.

And address config has this city country okay.

And this location is the my field name.

That's all the getter and setter.

Now it will properly bind it.

So it will look for the map which has this name.

So it found this okay.

Then it will store the key.

This become your key home.

So it will create one home.

And then this city home dot city home dot country.

So this city and country it will see that okay address config is the object.

So it will get this object, bind this city and country and store it here.

So we can even create complex map objects also, and you can simply use it like this.

Normal.

How Java object is used to access the values.

Okay, you are able to get the location.

Okay, so till now it's clear that we can map even the complex configurations in our Java objects.

Either it's a list list of object map, map of object, normal object direct values, everything.

We can do that.

Now.

Another advantage is the validations.

Spring boot automatically validate fields after binding before the app fully starts.

So one thing is you have to add this dependency spring boot starter validation because this will add

enable certain annotations which we are going to use.

So first thing is we need to add at the rate validated annotation on top of our at the rate configuration

property class.

Okay.

And also remember that whenever any validation fail, application will not even start itself.

So see this example.

Now this is very simple one I created at the rate component.

I want spring to create a bean at.

The rate configuration property means after the empty bean is created by spring configuration, binding

will start its work and it will bind all the configuration starting with user to its fields.

Now I also put validated means all the annotations which I am going to add now that need to be validated.

Okay, so now here, if you see I have put at the rate not blank message and I give the messages name

must not be empty on the top of this name.

So now here, if you see what I'm trying to do, is adding a validation okay.

Whatever the value.

So first sequence is empty.

Been second is binding like binding is your property to object.

And the third is validation okay.

So validate what it will validate.

It will validate the value of these fields whatever the annotation we have to use okay.

Let's say that for the age I have used the annotation at the rate min value equals to one.

So means the minimum value of the age should be one.

Okay.

And for the testing purpose in application dot properties I have put zero okay.

So when you start an application itself it says that failed age cannot be zero.

Whatever the message you have given.

Okay, your validation fails.

So see how easy it is to validate the values which are coming from application.properties.

Okay.

And there are so many validations which we can use like at the rate not null.

You can use like this value cannot be null.

Not blank means not null.

Not empty okay.

So here like are not empty.

You can use it on top of list and map that it should have certain values at the rate min minimum value

at the rate max.

If you want to define what's the maximum value positive or you can use positive or zero.

It's like greater than zero.

Greater than equals to zero.

Similarly at the rate negative.

At the rate negative or zero less than zero or less than equals to zero okay.

So there are different regexes.

If you see that these are nothing but like hibernate if you, uh, have seen the hibernate validations.

Right.

It is very similar to that one internally.

Actually, it used that only.

Okay.

So if you are familiar with hibernate we have seen the hibernate validations also previously okay.

So it's very similar to that one only.

Now last thing would be like one question comes to your mind okay.

One doubt.

What we are saying is currently till our sequences we are creating an empty bean.

Why?

Because we have used at the rate component.

This is very important.

So see the sequence and then see the answer also.

The second thing is we are saying configuration binding configuration binding.

What it will do is it will use the setter method.

And invoke the setter method to update update the fields using application dot properties.

Now what if I have to make my configuration class immutable?

Okay, generally this is the how the interviewer asks the interview question.

Generally that how you can make your configuration properties class immutable.

Okay, because let's say you have given an answer through at the rate component one, then definitely

the sequence is going to be like this.

First been would be created, and after that configuration binding has to invoke the setter method to

update the values.

And whenever you have a setter method, definitely it's not an immutable class.

Immutable class means once you have defined the value, it cannot be changed.

Okay, but if this is the how we are doing this currently, it is definitely not immutable.

Why?

First, during empty bin, let's say age is zero.

Then during configuration binding it calls the setter method it update it with the whatever the property

value it has.

Let's say I have defined 27.

So you are changing it.

Definitely.

It's not an immutable.

So now the question of the ask question intention is how you can make this configuration class immutable

generally, which is very important.

Once you read the configuration from the properties it should not be changed by anyone.

So this is very, very important.

And this is how actually it's used in the industry.

It should be immutable.

So answer is constructor binding okay.

So see this how we can do that.

Very very simple okay.

But very minor.

You can say that uh observation here what we are doing.

So first I created earlier the class name was user configuration.

I just changed the name to immutable user configuration.

Nothing.

Same thing.

Okay, now here I make the all the fields final.

Now constructor binding as the name says.

So we're gonna be using constructor when the object is first time object is going to get created at

the time of creation of the object itself I am going to initialize this.

So immutable user configuration I'm creating a constructor and all the fields.

Okay.

And that gonna initialize at the time of object creation itself okay.

So it's not first like you are going to create an empty bin or no.

Whenever somebody has to create an object it has to pass this value.

And at the time of object creation itself these values would be set.

Okay.

So this is gonna be the thing.

And then here I have only getter methods no setter method.

Now see what things we needed.

One thing you notice that there is no at the rate component, I removed it.

Why?

Because as soon as you put at the rate component means you are telling spring that, hey, you manage

the creation of an object.

Okay?

And when spring going to manage the creation of an object.

Spring doesn't know how to or what value I need to provide here.

What value I need to provide here, what name I need to provide here, what age I need to provide,

what active I need to provide here.

Okay.

So spring or you can say that spring IOC Inversion of control doesn't know how to invoke this constructor.

What value I need to pass.

So at the rate component that's why I removed it okay.

And I gave this responsibility to configuration Binding itself.

Okay.

Earlier configuration binding sees that.

Hey.

Okay.

Whatever the user configuration I have, its object is already present.

Yes.

Object is already present.

Yes.

Then call the setter method to update the values.

Now we just need to tell that hey, you also have to take the responsibility of creation the object

also.

Okay.

And that's we do by like this.

In our main class application class, we have to tell at the rate configuration properties scan.

So whenever you add this configuration, whenever you add this annotation at the configuration properties

scan what we are telling to the configuration binding that hey, I am giving the responsibility to you

to create an object for this configuration class property class also.

Okay, so I am not relying on a spring.

I am giving the responsibility to configuration binding itself that you create an object.

Okay.

And when it scan for it so it knows.

So it first read application dot properties.

Okay.

And then when it find this object find this class it need to invoke its constructor.

It will do the binding okay.

What value is that.

It has to pass.

Now it knows because it has read from application dot properties.

Okay.

So at the time of creation of a new object this value would be set okay.

And there are no setters.

And these are final.

So now our class is immutable.

So these this is the only change know at the rate component.

You only got.

Why.

Because spring doesn't know what value I need to pass okay.

So that's why spring won't be able to create an object of it.

So that's why we.

I have removed it at that component.

I don't want to give you the responsibility.

And who knows what value to pass is configuration binding because it reads the application property.

So this is how we tell okay at the configuration properties can on top of your main class application

class.

Okay.

But you might be thinking hey earlier why it's not an issue earlier.

Whatever.

We are doing it when it is not immutable.

See earlier it's not an issue because even though we have used at the rate component okay there we have

default constructor, default constructor which is no our constructor.

So our spring inversion of control can create an empty bean.

Create an empty bean by calling a no arg constructor.

So that's why at the rate component was working properly, it able to create an object through calling

the default constructor.

Okay.

And then configuration binding calling setter method to update it.

But here in the immutable, since we don't have setter method okay.

And we don't have this default constructor.

No.

Or constructor okay.

So that's why at the right component will not work.

And that's where configuration bindings comes into the picture.

Okay.

And here if you see it worked properly our immutable objects work properly.

And also there is no difference in the validation of the field like how we used to validate the field.

Like at the rate minimum, uh, at the rate not null like in uh, non-mutable class, like similarly

in for the mutable.

Also, it's the same thing you can use above the field itself.

Okay.

I hope this is clear at the rate configuration properties.

If there is any doubt, let me know.

We can discuss further in the comment section.

Okay guys.

Bye.