# SOLID Principles

Another side.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today in LD we will see solid principles.
So before I start with this topic I will tell you why it is required.
So see we we know that there are so many design patterns we have and each pattern follow this principle.
And if you remember, I also told you that the usage of this pattern is not mandatory.
Let's say in interview you got certain question, okay that hey design parking lot or design XYZ any
system.
So it is not mandatory that you should use certain pattern.
You can come up with the classes, objects, their relationship by your own.
Okay, that's totally fine.
But whatever the solution, whatever the classes and relationship which you are coming up.
Okay.
That should follow these principles.
So that's what I am trying to say, that these principles are the guideline.
You can say that these are the fundamentals.
No matter if you are using a pattern, that pattern, we know that it's a already tested it's a flexible
solution to a already.
You can say that some problem which already exists.
So we don't have to reinvent the wheel in identifying the same or solving the same problem.
Again, we can directly use the pattern, but we know that those patterns which are present, they are
already following those principles.
And these principles are the one that actually make this design clean, flexible, okay and easy to
maintain.
So again, usage of pattern is not mandatory.
You can come up with your completely new design of your classes and objects.
But these design whichever you are coming up with should follow this principle.
Now let's see what are these principle?
So we have solid which stands for S single responsibility O open closed principle L Liskov substitution
principle I interface segregation principle.
Dependency inversion principle okay.
And this advantage which gives us is that help us to write better code.
Avoid duplicate code.
Easy to maintain.
Easy to understand flexible reduce complexity.
So if you follow this principle these all advantages we can get.
Now let's see each principle one by one.
What is single responsibility principle.
It states that a class should have only one reason to change, meaning it should have only one responsibility,
one job.
And I will also tell you there is one confusion which engineers get that, uh, I will tell you after
this.
After once I told you the solution and the solution, then I will tell you that what generally question
engineers ask.
Okay, so with single responsibility, we get to know that what definition says that a class should
have only one responsibility?
Okay.
So understand with this example which violates the single responsibility.
So this is one object as an object marker which we are using it okay.
And now we sorry.
So I have an invoice class.
This invoice class is responsible for doing certain computation okay.
So this is let's say a business logic to compute the total price.
It is also responsible for saving the data to DB.
And also it is responsible for printing the invoice.
So this class is responsible for so many things.
Now the problem with the above code is that In future, let's say you have to change the logic of insertion
into the DB.
So let's say save to db.
This is SQL.
Now in future you want to change it to NoSQL.
You have to change the code.
Then let's say today you are printing the invoice.
Now you have to future you have to change the logic.
Then you again have to change this class.
So for each, when there are more responsibilities, then it is possible that this already class which
is tested and in production and with every change it has to be tested again.
So there is a higher chance of human error.
Okay.
So this violates SRP because if the tax calculation rule change in future we need to modify the invoice
class.
If database structure change again we have to modify this class.
So if there are so many requirements we are putting, then there is a high chance that this class will
get modified too frequently.
So here, if you are following the single responsibility, let's see how it can be.
You can improve.
This code can be improved.
Again, this is an object.
Same thing.
Nothing new in that one.
So this I have one class for invoice.
Now this class is only responsible for my business computation.
Let's say computing the total price.
That's it.
Now I created a separate class invoice.
Now this class is totally responsible for saving the data to DB.
And yes, I am accepting the invoice whatever the invoice I have.
Okay.
So let's say this class, whatever the data I have that I will use it to save to DB.
So this is just uh, you can say that internal logic.
What, what I want you to tell I have a separate class which is now responsible for managing the database
operation only.
Similarly, I have invoice printer class.
Its responsibility is just printing the invoice.
Okay, so now in future if you want to like change the how we how you are storing the data into the
DB only this class will get changed.
This class and this class will be untouched.
Okay.
Similarly, in future if printer logic is changed, only this class get impacted.
This and this again its untouched and you don't need to test it again.
Okay, so now I will tell you what.
One question generally comes from an engineer that hey, does it mean that one class can only have one
method?
No.
What I mean to say here is that one class should have only one responsibilities.
You can say that the logical grouping.
Ping.
If we are going to keep only one method in one class, we are going to have like class explosion.
We have to create so many classes.
It just like logical grouping we are doing so all methods which are related to computation we can put
into this class.
There could be 1020 methods which is related to DB.
We can put it here okay.
Similarly for printer, if there are more so we can group logically okay.
So it's never like one method one class.
We can have multiple method in one class.
But those should be logical grouped okay.
So the benefit you will see that yes single responsibility.
If there is a change in invoice text calculation only specific class will change similarly for DB.
Similarly for printer.
So you can maintain your code better, improve testability and enhance the reusability.
Say, for example, if anybody used this printer class or logic, they can use it.
So you can reuse it also because it's in a separate class.
The second is open closed principle.
So open closed principle says that a class should be open for extension but closed for modification.
What does it mean?
It means that new functionality can be added through inheritance rather than modifying existing code.
The problem with that is that existing code is already tested and deployed in production.
Adding modification would introduce additional risk and required additional testing effort.
So understand with this example.
So yes we have created invoice Dao right.
So it is responsible for saving into the DB Okay, it's already tested and it's already live.
Now let's say that in future I have added one more that save to file.
Earlier it was saved to DB.
I have added save to file in future.
Let's say this one is SQL.
I have added another class save to NoSQL.
So another thing comes is that.
You have to keep modify the class which is already tested.
Okay.
And why you have to modify because you are adding a new feature.
So save to DB it was there.
Then save to file.
It's a new feature.
Then you are modifying the existing class then save to NoSQL DB.
This is again a new feature, but again you are modifying the existing class.
So this violating this principle what it says that open for extension but closed for modification.
So we achieve this with inheritance.
So we can create invoice Dao interface and we can have multiple child.
Okay.
One is DB invoice Dao one is for DB specific logic.
Another is file specific feature.
Another is let's say in memory.
Or then you have future let's say NoSQL depend.
So whenever new feature is there you can extend it.
Okay.
So it's like open for extension okay.
It is open.
But let's say in future you are adding NoSQL DB support.
So you will add a new child class.
You don't need to modify the existing one which are already tested and in life.
So that's what we did.
So invoice Dao now is an interface.
So database invoice Dao implements this interface and it override this save method and provide its implementation.
Similarly for file invoice.
Now it does the same thing.
Okay.
So it implements the invoice and provide an implementation for it.
Safe.
How it wanted to save the data.
Okay.
So you can easily see that now it reduced the risk.
Reduce the risk of like if you are already changing into already tested code, definitely the risk get
increased okay of an error, but now it reduced the risk of an error.
You can better maintain it because now each responsibility is in two different different classes.
Okay.
Yeah.
Flexibility.
Easy to add new behavior without touching the existing code okay.
So yeah OCP very important principle.
Another is Liskov Liskov substitution principle.
It states that object of superclass should be replaceable with object of subclass without breaking the
application.
Okay.
And also so consider with this scenario.
So this is class A.
This is class B it is child of it okay.
And another is that you have an interface not a child.
So this is interface.
And this interface has two child class A class B okay.
So this is an interface.
And this interface has two child.
So this Liskov substitution principle says that let's say today in this scenario if you have in your
code you have let's say class A object okay.
So today let's say you have certain the code if you replace this with the class B.
So what it says that the object of superclass should be replaced with the object of subclass without
breaking.
The application means if class B is a subtype of class A, if class B is a subtype of class A, then
we should be able to replace object of A with B without breaking the behavior of the program.
Okay, if I change it okay.
If I start accepting this in class B, its object, then again it should not break the behavior.
And in this case of the interface where you have multiple child then it should be replaceable.
So today you are accepting certain data into the class A, and if you change it to class B again it
should behave properly.
It should not break the functionality.
So in simple term, if I have to say we should only extend the capability of a parent class, we should
never narrow it down.
Understand with this example.
Now it would more clarify you.
Let's say I have an interface bike, so I am using this scenario.
I have an interface bike and it has multiple abstract method.
Let's say turn on the engine, turn off engine, accelerate, apply brake and it has two child, one
is motorcycle which is a bike, and the bicycle again it's a bike.
So it is implementing this method.
Turn on the engine.
It's making the engine on.
Turn off the engine.
It is making the engine off.
Accelerate.
Speed is increased.
Apply.
Brake speed is decreased.
Now in the bicycle.
If you notice that turn on the engine, it is throwing an exception.
Turn off the engine.
It is throwing an exception because the bicycle do not have engine accelerate.
Yes, we are increasing the speed of cycle brake.
We are decreasing the speed of cycle.
But here, if you see that we are breaking the Liskov substitution principle.
How?
Now see this code?
I have an object.
Okay.
Let's say bike object.
So I have a new motorcycle.
It's objects.
Motorcycle object okay so this is bike.
So everything is working fine.
Turn on engine, turn off.
Engine.
Accelerate.
Apply.
Brake.
Everything is working fine.
Now I'm replacing this object with bicycle.
So what?
LSP principle says that in this scenario.
Okay, in the interface one, the object, the all the object at same level.
Generally all the child of this interface, the object should be replaceable without breaking the code.
So now here, if in this one bike object.
Now I replace with from motorcycle to bicycle.
Now if you see that accelerate will work apply brake will work but turn on engine.
It will throw an exception.
This is now not working as expected.
Okay, so the behavior of the code change.
Because my code expectation is that turn on the engine means it will turn on the engine.
But here now it is throwing exception.
Means this is not accepted.
So means your code is not working properly now.
So means you can't replace the motorcycle with the bicycle.
Okay.
So you got this one.
Like how the LSP principle is violation here.
So problem with the above code is that not all bike have engine.
So let's say if you have an e-bike it doesn't have an engine bicycle.
It doesn't have an engine.
So but the base class forces turn on engine method.
So bicycle throws an exception violating the expected contract.
Client code cannot safely treat all by subclass uniformly.
Okay, so our client code cannot treat motorcycle.
Bicycle like, hey, they will behave in a uniform manner.
No.
So that's where LSP principal comes in.
And it says that.
See this one?
Now, here I have divided the interface in a way that all the child classes is only implementing, like
their feature, like they are.
You can say that it's not narrowing down what is expected.
Let's say engine.
Engine is saying that turn on engine, turn off engine.
Then you have another bike abstract class.
Or you can say the interface it has accelerate and apply brake.
Now motorcycle extends bike and also implements engine because motorcycle can have engine turn on engine
functionality, turn off engine functionality.
It also can accelerate and also apply brake.
So that's why it implemented all four properly.
But now in the case of bicycle it only extend bike, it only extend bike and it only have this accelerate
and apply brake.
Okay.
So now we have a proper you can say that a design where we are not limiting or we are not breaking the
contract.
So now in your client code, if you see I have a motorcycle, I have a bicycle.
Now the motorcycle can do all this functionality which is required.
Similarly bicycle can do all the functionality.
It is required.
Okay.
So your code will not break now.
So that is clear.
Like how to follow the LSP principle.
Very simple that always follow the contract.
Okay, so if an interface or abstract class whatever is has like okay, these are the certain functionality
which objects should have, then all the child classes generally should have that feature.
It's not like okay nine has and one doesn't have those features.
So means our client code now need to have a proper understanding that okay, there might be certain
cases where these feature will not work.
So it's not uniform now.
So LSP says that have a proper interface okay.
So that your child classes only do what is actually they are meant to do.
Okay.
So unnecessary functionality we should not have which they do not even support.
Okay.
The third is that interface segregation principle.
So we have already seen solid, uh, single responsibility.
Open, closed.
Liskov.
So this was the fourth one.
Interface segregation principle.
It states that interface should be such that clients should not implement unnecessary functions that
they do not need.
Again.
So here if you see that I have interface restaurant and I have so many methods now I created one class
waiter.
Now in this it's a child of this restaurant employee is the relationship.
So waiter is an restaurant employee.
Now here if you see that take order.
Yes it is doing.
It is its job.
It provided the proper implementation.
Serve and drinks.
Yes, it does that.
Now here if you see clean the kitchen.
No, it is throwing an exception.
It is not its job.
Prepare food.
It is not its job to decide.
Menu.
It is not its job.
so we are unnecessary forcing the child class right that are unnecessary.
Forcing the child class to implement the method that they don't ever need.
Okay, again, don't get confused that okay, we should never have a method which throws an exception.
No, it doesn't like that.
That's why I specifically mentioned you don't ever need.
So waiter here say that it can never prepare the food or it's the waiter can never decide the menu.
So these functionality can never be there in the waiter.
Okay.
So why unnecessary forcing this child class to implement this method.
But let's say today certain feature is not there.
Yes.
Today you can throw an exception.
It is possible that in future it the capability increase.
Then you can have that.
Okay.
So it's again so see the design is like how we uh there is no one fixed solution.
Okay.
As, as we more discuss there could be multiple solution.
So what I think that if you are following the ISP, we just need to make sure that the child class which
certain functionality can never come, then those.
Then these methods should be avoided.
Then we should not force this class to provide an implementation for which this feature can never come.
But if there is a class today, there is not a feature, but it is possible to add a future, uh, add
a feature in the near future.
Then it is possible that we might be throwing exception today, but tomorrow we will provide the functionality.
Okay.
So clear.
So now here in this case, how we resolve this is that we created the proper interfaces, like with
the specific task, let's say chef task.
So it has its own task what all it has to do waiter task interface.
It has a specific operation with which it has to do similarly maintenance task what all operation it
is supposed to do now that we can create a specific child classes.
Okay.
And now it you can see that the chef child class of the chef task is now only implement this.
Similarly waiter is implementing the waiter task and it is only responsible for this.
So now we are resolving the problem where unnecessarily we are forcing the child class to implement
the method which it doesn't ever need.
Okay, now we have created a smaller, more segregated interfaces and the child class will only implement
that so that they can only provide their implementation what they actually need.
Cool.
So what is the benefit which we are getting?
We prevent the bloating of the classes by having each class implement interface that it uses.
No force dependency on irrelevant functionality.
Cleaner.
More maintainable design code.
Okay, so here don't get confused with the LSP principle and the ISP.
Okay, so in the LSP principle, also if you notice that we have divided the interface right.
But the intention is different.
So LSP principle more focuses on that from the client side code.
The functionality we should not decrease it.
Okay.
So let's say you have an interface and you have multiple child classes.
It's more focus is on that.
They provide some consistent behavior.
Okay.
This behavior should be present.
Yeah behavior could be different but this should be present.
So LSP principle is more on to that.
And it is more focused on that.
That okay.
If any object don't have consistent behavior take it out and put it into different interface.
Okay.
And it's more focus on that.
Your client code should not break when you switch between these objects okay.
So object one.
Object two.
Object three.
So even if you switch between this objects which are part of the same interface, your code should not
break.
Yeah.
You may can get different behavior, but your code should not break because you are expecting these
Functionalities that the contract and LSP is more focused on that.
Okay.
If something is not, uh, providing certain behavior, which is the contract here, then take it out,
okay.
And here in the interface, segregation is more on that.
Like the child class, we should not force it that, hey, provide an implementation of it.
And we know that it's going to never, never have this feature and it's still unnecessary.
It just says that, okay, I don't support it.
I don't support it, I don't support it.
So why unnecessary.
We are forcing the child class to provide an implementation which it doesn't require.
So it more focuses on interface part.
Create an interface small enough or you can say that uh more segregated way.
Don't club so many operations in one have a proper segregated interface.
Okay.
Functionality.
This functionality, all this, uh, functions related to this particular functionality, let's say
chef related task.
All the operations related to this I created on this interface, all the operation related to waiter,
I put here in this interface likewise.
So it more focusing on the interface.
Create a cleaner interfaces.
Don't blot it with so many operations okay I hope that is clear.
And the last one is the dependency inversion principle.
So dependency inversion principle states that high level component should not depend on low level component
directly.
Instead they should depend on abstraction considered with this example.
So here let's say I have an interface keyboard and I have two child classes.
Wired keyboard.
Again wired keyboard is a keyboard, and Bluetooth keyboard is a keyboard.
So these are two children.
Now see this example which is violating the dependency inversion principle.
So I have an object map book.
Now here if you see I am depending.
So MacBook has via keyboard.
So now it is totally depend on low level module directly on this wired keyboard.
So in future if you want to support Bluetooth keyboard would you be able to do it dynamically?
No.
You have to change this class.
So that's what dependency inversion says that hey, you should rely on abstraction rather than low level
components.
And how you can do that.
See that one now in the MacBook I depend on keyboard.
Keyboard is an interface, so it can hold an object of wire keyboard.
It can hold an object of Bluetooth keyboard.
So when creating an object, we can decide what we want it.
So now let's say that first time I am creating an object MacBook and I provided a keyboard.
So now MacBook has wire keyboard.
Now next time I'm creating a MacBook I provided the Bluetooth keyboard object.
So see that is also supported.
But previously when we have hard coded the wired keyboard, is it possible to supply the Bluetooth keyboard?
No, you have already hard coded wire.
There is no way you can dynamically change it.
So that's why we have to rely on abstraction interfaces majorly.
Okay, so I hope this solid principles are clear.
Practice with your hand and if there is any question, let me know.
We can discuss further.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
