# LLD of Payment Gateway

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the low level design of payment gateway.
So today in this one I will try to show you uh the requirement clarification of the payment gateway
sequencing diagram, the class diagram and also the coding part.
Right.
I will also I will also show you the code okay.
So this is a very very important interview question.
But the scope is too big.
So the very important part is to define the scope right.
So for example so you everybody already know right.
What is payment gateway.
So if just in if you don't know very short payment gateway act as a mediator between the user and financial
institution and helps to transfer the money.
That's all okay.
So when an interview you get this question.
You the very first part you have to do is define the scope.
So there are let's say there are many use cases.
So this two cases I have listed down here to show that how the scope increases.
So first is peer to peer when user one is making a payment to user two.
Another is peer to merchant.
When you goes to any e-commerce site, purchase something and do a checkout, and while doing a checkout
you make a payment.
Select a particular payment gateway.
So that is peer to merchant.
So now when let's say that if you don't define a scope and you also included this peer to merchant,
then you also have to take care of refund processing multi-tenancy, which is very, very big topic
in itself.
Okay.
So for today let's define the scope that okay we are going to focus on peer to peer okay.
So with that being said we have to first clarify the requirement.
So let's say that if I am getting this question and what things I want to clarify is that let's say
that I open an app.
So I'm thinking that what user can do user can be added, a new user can be added, updated or deleted.
Right.
So this operation can be done.
Second thing is let's say if user is already present into a system, it can add more instruments or
it can update an instrument or it can remove an instrument itself.
So when I say an instrument, instrument is either your bank card through which you can fund a transaction
or in which you will receive the payment.
Okay.
So you know, right in your payment, let's say me shreyansh in the wallet I can add multiple instrument.
My bank one, bank two, my card one.
So I have two banks and one card.
Now I have three instruments present.
Now if I want to make a payment to anybody else.
Some user two I can choose like okay, this ₹100 I want to fund from which particular instrument.
So okay, so when I say an instrument now you know that it's either your like either bank card balance.
So what through which you can do fund or in which you can get or receive money.
What all things we can do, we can what we can do is we can make a payment user one to user two payment
we can do.
And what all things when you do from user one to user two, what are the things included?
One thing is searching of a user.
Let's say that user one wants to make a payments to user two.
So let's say I'm searching user two either through email ID or phone number.
Right.
So I need a search functionality.
And after that uh, I need to select the amount.
Um, like, um, I want to transfer ₹100, ₹10 award.
And the funding instrument that I told you.
Like from which instrument?
I have to fund this amount.
Right.
And what ultimately we have to do is we have to pass this information to processor.
As I told you, that payment gateway is a mediator.
Okay.
So it passes the information to financial institution through processor.
So payment gateway interact with processor.
Processor further interact with the card network which further interact with the banks and all financial
institution.
So for payment gateway it interact with the processor.
So all this your bank information the payment gateway pass it to the processor okay.
So when we open an app uh this all things can be done.
What else.
It is possible in the scope notification whether you add, update or delete something user or instrument.
A notification should be received, so notification should be built out.
Okay.
Another things which I can think of is user should be able to see the transaction history.
So if I make a ten payments and later on when I want to see, I should be able to see my transaction
history okay.
So this is the first step which through which I wanted to clarify my requirements, uh, from the with
the interviewer and also want to understand the flow better also.
Okay.
Now for the peer to peer at least I have a little understanding that, okay.
What all things can be done in an app.
Now using this, uh, basic requirement, what I did second part is I tried to find out the main entities
involved in the above flow.
So the main entity, I mean to say the main objects, so there can be more objects, but that when we
slowly build out we will get to know.
But at least main main men should not should get uncovered by that time now.
So first main is user can be added.
So definitely first is user second.
Um we talked about instrument can be added deleted.
So definitely instrument is one entity we have to create.
Another is make payment.
So payment is nothing but a transaction.
You are doing one transaction.
So transaction transaction history I'm thinking can be a one entity notifications.
So notification we have to build out like so notification and processor.
So these are the main entities which we can think of from the above requirement gathering.
So till now we are good right.
So this is just a start.
Like how this big question we can slowly start from very basics okay.
So now to further understand the dependencies between each of this entity I want I created a sequence
diagram for one happy flow.
Let's say user making a payment from user one to user two.
So what is the flow?
So just to understand like how they are interrelated with each other.
So what I did is I tried to create one sequence diagram.
So with this sequence diagram it will help you to identify the dependency between these objects.
Which object is dependent on other.
Okay so user.
So I think that I created one user service which takes care of user creation addition deletion.
There is something called instrument bank card add.
So I call it as an instrument service which takes care of creation of banks, cards and all.
Then we have transaction transaction history.
So I created one transaction service which I think can handle all the transaction related, uh, operations
in transaction history and everything, so this should take care of it.
Then we have processor and notification.
So we have a processor and we have a notification service.
Now how they are interacting with each other this main entities.
So now let's say from the app I want to make user one makes payments to user two.
So first user one should exist into the system.
So I'm adding add user right.
So first I am adding a first user one.
So what it will do is user service will create the user create one user id and return.
Then I'm creating user two.
I'm calling add user API might be.
So it will create some user two.
So it will create user two id and return.
So now two users got created into the system.
So now so currently app is only interacting with user service.
Now I want to add instrument to this users.
So I am calling from the app.
I am calling ad bank, let's say which is called by user one, right.
And it goes to the instrument service.
So what it will do is it will create let's say bank by user one.
Right.
So it will associate this bank to this user.
Then I am calling again ad bank and which is called by what user two.
So it will create another bank but it will associate it with user two.
So I am creating another bank and it will associate it with user two.
Okay.
So we have created an instruments also for this uh two users.
Now I want to make a payment.
Now let's say that user one wants to make a payments to user two of ₹10.
What all the sequence can happen.
So first let's say user one comes to an app.
It will first search get user details, maybe through email ID, email ID or phone number.
It will try to find out the user two details.
So now let's say that it able to find the user two through email ID okay.
Once it is able to find out a user two ID, what it will do is what user one has to do is that whatever
the amount it has to transfer, it has to select from which instrument may be.
Currently we have added only one, but there could be more.
So it is calling.
Instrument service and getting the.
All the instruments.
So now what would happen is while making a payment we will show to the user that hey you have bank one,
bank two.
This card one card two.
Now user can select hey fund this through this bank two.
So that's why.
So this second part is like user should be able to fetch the instrument so that it can select from which
it want to fund the transaction.
And then third one is make payment.
It will invoke the make payment.
And it will goes to the transaction service.
Right.
So transaction service will get right.
Send it to the sender.
Credit to this receiver ID right.
Like this is user one.
Or instead of sender receiver let's say that debit user one.
Credit user two.
It will also get amount right.
And also it will get debit instrument ID right.
But one thing is you never select credit like you only select that.
Hey I want to transfer ₹10 right.
And I will, I will I will make a payment through this instrument let's say bank and but you never select
that.
Hey for user to transfer here from the payment gateway?
No.
So what generally happen is transaction when it received to the transaction service it what it will
do is it will call.
Instrument service.
Right.
So it will see that hey user two is what is the default instrument present.
So sometime in the payment gateway you can set preferred instrument right.
I said hey if anybody is transferring money to me this is my preferred instrument.
Uh, do a withdrawal in this one okay.
So transaction service, what it can do is it can call instrument service.
It can call instrument service and see that okay.
In which one I have to deposit.
Like I have to do credit into which which instrument ID right.
So what it will do is it will take the user to where it has to receive the money.
Now it will check here.
What is the preferred instrument set by this user?
If preferred is not set.
It will check what is the default right or if default is not there sometime.
What happened is that depending upon, uh, the logic, it will say that hey, what is the latest instrument
you added?
And it will pick one or randomly it will pick any one, any instrument.
Okay.
So this all instruments comes into the, uh to the transaction service.
So transaction service definitely need to call instrument service to fetch the instrument detail because
it need to pass to the processor because it need to pass this information to processor.
Processor need let's say if it is a bank processor need ifSc code, bank account number, and rest of
the details it needed to process the transaction right?
With just ID it is not possible.
So when transaction service is getting an ID and this credit to this instruction ID debit from this
instruction ID what it will do is it will call this instrument service fetch the details like ifSc and
all for the particular instrument and then process it to a forward it to a processor.
Now processor processor will take it forward to a network and decide whether it is success or failure.
We will store the transaction, we will create the transaction, whether it's a success or failure or
whatever.
Right.
And ultimately we will send the notification.
We will send the notification to the user.
Okay.
So this is my understanding of the very, very simple when a user do a payment okay.
See sometimes interviewer can ask you a follow up question that hey here in this sequence diagram.
You are saying that transaction service is calling processor.
It's kind of a real time, right?
But you know that in the real world the bank can take up to 3 to 5 days.
So sometimes you happen is you your money has been debited but credit doesn't happen.
It might take a couple of hours or maybe one day, two day or anything.
But Bank says that, hey, we take 3 to 5 days, so it is possible, right?
So these things can be enhanced.
So this is just like we for the interview purpose.
We are saying that transaction service is calling processor real time but we can enhance it.
If interviewer put this question that we can make use of async operation.
So we will invoke the processor just to validate.
Validate what?
Hey, user one has sufficient money to fund this transaction.
So what will happen is the user one is chosen, right?
Hey, this is the debit from I have to do.
So we will pass this to processor.
And this can be real time that hey this user has balance or not.
If user has a balance, reserve some balance to it okay.
And also we can think that user two where the disbursement has to go that is valid or not.
Is it blocked or is it like uh like uh like closed.
Uh disbursement is not possible.
So those kind of validation can be done real time.
If this two are okay then we can do is we can make an async operation to a processor.
And we can say that, hey, debit from user one credit to user two.
Currently it's in pending state okay.
Now what would happen is that, uh, maybe after couple of hours or whenever, like one day.
Two day.
Processor.
Come back.
Right.
Processor, come back and call the transaction service that.
Hey, this is an update.
And that time we will use that and update transaction either success or failure.
Right.
When the processor comes back we can update whether it's a success or denied whatever the reason is.
Okay, so this is just a follow up question that if interviewer put a follow up question, that why
we have to wait on a real time if what if it takes time.
So then you can tell this part async operation that we will do validation from processor in real time.
And after that, once processor validated right then we will make an async call.
And then we will put the transition into pending and after uh like once the processor processes it and
get the response, we will change it to success or failure.
Okay, so with this sequence diagram now we can easily make a class diagram.
So I will show you the class diagram.
And also in parallel I will also show you the coding.
Okay let's see one by one.
Okay.
So let's start with the user first okay.
So first is I created a user entity.
Okay.
So this is our user entity.
So user entity I have put that it has user ID name email.
You can add more like a user phone number or something if you want.
But I have kept this three and the getter and setter.
So this is the respective.
User entity.
So user ID name, email and the getter and setter.
Okay, now there is something called user service.
This one.
So now what this user service do is that there can be many users in a system.
So it maintains a list of users.
So see here in the NLD we don't have DB.
We have to do everything in memory.
So currently so user service is taking this responsibility that if there are more than one user it is
maintaining the list here.
Right.
So it will add user.
It will add user and it will also fetch user get user and it will update this list.
So I'll show you the respective user service.
So here in the user service I have made one static list of user.
Now it has two operation, one is ad user, another is get user.
So see in the ad user I am getting the user.
Do you know write already do what it is used for.
So let me tell you once.
So this is the request comes from outside.
This is your application.
This is your ultimately DB values let's say user.
So here in the DB you have something called let's say user ID email right.
And when the request is coming it's coming generally as a like uh so what generally happen is it comes
in like a user which your client understands.
Right.
They don't.
So this your DB value should never go out okay.
So everything comes like user do.
So user do is nothing but a Pojo which mostly has similar fields like user id.
I am calling it as let's say uuid email.
I am calling it as a mail, so you can say that it's just a mapping.
But what it helps is that this is your actually all client understand.
So even in future you change certain your column name or certain this one your all the client.
So maybe let's say you are 100 clients so those clients will not get impacted.
Okay.
So user is something you can say that which ultimately your client understands right.
And it also helps that uh your DB column names and generally uh which is information which is you can
say that very, very specific to your you can map it to the user, do what and only tell what client
want to know.
Okay.
So here coming back to this one coding.
Add user.
So in the add user I am getting a user.
Do so here from this user.
Do I am creating a user?
So I created a user.
Now I am creating one user id randomly I'm generating some id, I'm adding it to the list.
I'm adding it to the list right.
And ultimately I am sending again back the user.
Right.
So it again send back the user.
And then another method I have is get user.
So get user is like you get a user ID.
Now from this list you just filter out a specific user, convert it to a user do and return it.
Okay.
So this is clear.
This is clear right.
So and this user service here if you see it has it has a relationship with the user entity.
Now there is something called user controller.
So user controller is nothing.
But you can say that the front facing for this user service where it will just like add user, get user
at expose.
You can say that the API's that outside they can everybody can call this one right.
So it's a controller which exposes the APIs.
Generally you can say that right.
And ultimately this controller just pass the information to service and the service will now take care
of it.
It will do have a business logic service add user.
It will do certain validation and all.
Then ultimately it will create it and insert into to the list.
Okay.
So this three is okay right?
User do have also showed you that it is the same kind of ID first name mail.
So here in the user entity I'm calling it user ID name email Okay.
So this is what my all client understands.
Okay.
So now user is fine.
And you know that in the payment gateway I told you that this app has to interact with this user service.
So payment gateway has has a dependency on this user controller.
It has a dependency on this user controller okay.
So user controller is fine.
Now let's move to here instrument controller.
Right.
This is very very important.
So let's do from here.
Okay so I told you that instrument can be bank can be card in future.
It can be let's say balance or it can be many other things.
Right.
It keep on adding.
We don't know how many instruments are possible today.
right?
So it should be easily extensible.
So here what I have done is I have created an instrument class.
I have created an abstract class.
So generally no matter if any new instrument gets added so it has instrument ID it belongs to which
user.
So here I do not have full user only user ID for mapping.
So this instrument is belongs to which user.
So I have a user ID instrument type whether it's a bank.
So here instrument type is an enum.
Instrument type is an enum.
Whether it's a bank card or in future you can add it also like a balance.
So you can add it like what is this instrument type.
Okay.
Now these are the common.
So I have created like is the relationship.
So bank I have created one bank instrument child class card instrument as a child class.
So it will hold information specific to bank only.
This class will hold information specific to card only.
So for bank I need bank account number ifSc code.
But let's say for card I need card number CVC number.
Or maybe let's say expiry date or more.
So you can add it here.
Okay.
So this way if in future if you are adding balance it's specific fields.
You can add it here.
Okay.
So this is the first and I'll show you the entity part.
Now let's go to instrument.
So first is here instrument.
So here this three are common instrument ID user id instrument type.
Instrument type is currently bank and card.
Now this instrument has two bank instrument card instrument bank instrument I have put only two bank
account number ifSc.
You can add more if required.
Card instrument.
I have put only two card number and CVV number.
You can add getters and setters also.
Okay, so till here we are clear.
What else?
Now I told you that one user, one user can have multiple instruments.
I can have bank one bank two bank three card one card two.
I can have as much as instrument I want.
So I created one instrument service.
Right.
So I have one instrument service.
And in that one I created one map for this user.
What are the list of instruments?
Since we don't have DB we have to handle in memory.
So instrument service is taking care of doing this one.
So it's a static right?
So that no matter how many objects created or only a single, it belongs to a class.
So it is keeping this mapping.
User ID.
This user has list of instruments.
Okay.
And also here I have also created as a child bank service.
Card service.
Why?
See, I want a single responsibility in a solid principle.
We have something called single responsibility.
So now let's say that user wants to add an instrument.
There are so many.
Bank specific logic can be present into an instrument.
Like if user want to add a card, there can be so many card specific logic validation can be present.
So we can't have just one common method for adding a bank or adding a card.
So what I did is that the instrument service I created an abstract class.
I make one bank service card service and in future if there are more instruments we can add it.
So this add instrument, get instrument.
This specific classes are implementing now add instrument.
Now bank can have a specific logic to create bank.
Now get instrument bank specific logic to fetch the instrument there.
I'm telling you there this is where mostly I'm what?
I would say that things get complicated, right?
In a single if in a single method, you are trying to handle all the instruments, like it's gonna break
your solid principle.
And if there is a chance that interviewer will catch you there.
So here we have to adhere to the single responsibility part.
We have to divide this instrument service to bank service card service.
And the add instrument is like they can now they do a very specific logic for them.
Similarly for get instrument they can do a very specific logic to them.
Okay.
So this one I can show you here.
So here we have instrument service.
So instrument service.
As I told you it's an abstract class.
It has this static I have kept it where it is user versus list of instrument.
Because one user can have a like so many instruments.
So it is taking the responsibility of handling in memory.
Now user service is kind of like bank service card service right.
So add instrument and get instrument by user ID.
Let's say you can add more methods.
Get instrument by ID right.
So let's say add instrument.
So let's say you want to add bank.
So it will it will goes to the bank service.
So here if you see that here the bank is specific logic I have written to create a bank.
So now from whatever the input which is coming from the instrument do now I want to create bank.
Right.
So I, I am only reading the fields which I am interested for creating a bank, right?
So I can also do validate that the important fields for creating a bank are present or not.
So I am creating this bank instrument adding into this map.
Right.
Uh, if if user is empty, like then I'm creating one user for this one.
If user doesn't have first time user adding a instrument, so that list would be empty, right?
So we are creating a new array list and then ultimately adding the bank to a particular user.
Right.
So this is just like in memory handling of the instruments.
And ultimately we are returning the instrument due back right.
What our client understands.
Similarly for get users like uh I want all the instruments which a particular user has.
So let's say I created this method.
I pass the user id from this map.
From this map user id, I will get a list of instruments, I will get a list of instruments, and that
ultimately I will do a mapping to a do and send it list of instrument do so.
Similarly, if you see that you can do a specific for card also.
So now here if you see that the validation.
So this is card specific logic here.
So validations and everything is specific.
You can add it here okay.
So you got the purpose of bank service and card service.
Why it is very very important.
Then here I have created one factory.
Right.
So this factory purpose is to select particular whether I need to do a bank operation or card operation.
Which one.
So this is which generally helps.
So and then we have a instrument controller.
So what instrument controller has is instrument controller has dependency on this factory.
So instrument controller expose a method right.
Add instrument and it will get instrument do get instrument.
And it will like okay this is the instrument I want to fetch.
So now here if you see that instrument controller things are very generic.
Add instrument.
You can add bank.
Also you can add card.
Also we don't know like only it has like instrument duo.
Instrument duo have already told you it has all the information for a particular instrument right.
Instrument ID, user id type, bank account number, ifSc code, CVC number, everything it has and
when it particular reach to a bank, they can read it whatever the field they want it to read from there.
So now what it will do is controller.
It will call this instrument service factory and pass the instrument type which is present into this
instrument.
Do hey this is the type is bang.
Now this factory will check okay.
It is a bank.
So it will create this object.
If it is a card it will create this object and it will return this object to this one controller.
Now controller can call just add instrument to a particular.
So it will call either bank service or card service.
Let me show you instrument controller.
So instrument controller has a dependency on factory okay.
So during add instrument.
So this is the let's say that API is interface exposed or API exposed by the controller add instrument.
So I am getting just instrument do like what user wanted to insert.
Now from this I'm calling this factory and passing from this duo and passing the instrument type and
this factory.
What it will do is when it gets the instrument type, it will check.
Okay.
If it is a bank, return the bank service.
If it is a card, return a card service.
Now, once it will get the particular service it will call the add instrument.
So it will call either add of bank service or card service right.
So here if you see that what we have done is that when from uh like a very, very generic method is
making use of factory and from that instrument type, it is now going to a very, very specific instrument
layer where it will handle this properly in future.
Any changes required into the card service, no changes would be required in the bank service, balance
service or any future services which you have.
Right.
So this is our instrument controller.
Okay.
And then we have is like transaction controller.
Okay.
So instrument controller also we know now the flow.
I will tell you one flow.
But for now just understand what all the things which we have done.
So now here if you see that for the transaction controller transaction controller let's go from start.
So payment gateway.
So this is the payment app right.
So it has to call the transaction service.
So it has to call.
So that's why I put transaction controller here at the app.
So now transaction controller has exposed the method like make payment or get transaction history.
So again it will get transaction do transaction.
Do I have already told you that it is nothing but a duo.
Like whatever the transaction entity present, we will create.
Its similar representation is duo, which is like our client understand.
So transaction controller is going to call your service.
So it has a relationship here.
Transaction service.
Now what it will do transaction service.
It will provide you the implementation mostly of make payment right.
So what it will do is that it will do validation.
Right.
And I told you that it it has to invoke the instrument controller also.
So here in the transaction duo you will get certain like say this is the debit transaction ID.
So you have to fetch the details of this transaction because you have to pass it to processor.
So you have to now call.
So now here if you see I am calling Instrument controller, right?
So during make payment you will call the instrument controller, fetch the detail and you can also pass
it to processor later on.
And once processor says success or failure you can create a transaction and putting it in status whether
it's a success pending or failed.
Right.
So I have kept three status success pending denied.
Okay.
So here transaction has transaction id amount sender user id receiver user id debit instrument id credit
instrument ID.
So ultimately this transaction will get stored.
And since one user can have many transaction so the transaction service is taken care of doing in memory
storage based upon the user ID to this list of transaction.
So that when from the controller, if anybody asks hey, get the transaction history of this user from
this user it can directly take out.
So let me show you the transaction.
So here if you see that this is the transaction controller, it has the dependency on transaction service.
Make payment method is invoked.
So when the make payment method is invoked it got transaction do.
So transaction do has everything sender id receiver id debit from where from where the debit has to
be done amount right.
And then it will call the service.
Now when the service will call it will do validate that specific fields are present or not.
Then it calls the instrument and it will fetch the sender ID details like hey this is the sender user
and this is the debit transaction.
Fetch me all its instrument.
Fetch me this instrument from where the user wants to debit the fund.
So now I have instrument do.
So here I have ifSc code bank account number which I ultimately send it to the processor.
Similarly, I can make use of instrument controller to see that hey, if user two has any default or
I can randomly pick any instrument for the user to write.
Uh, but for here.
In this example, I have just assumed that in the request transaction due itself, credit instrument
ID is coming.
So I'm just loading that from the instrument controller that okay, get it and pass it to the processor
for processing it.
Now based upon the response you can add the logic, but based on the response you can create a transaction.
I am just hard coding it to the success.
You are creating a transaction ID and storing all the details and making the transaction success pending
or denied based upon the processor response And ultimately here we are making a history.
So the same transaction I am storing it against user one the sender.
Sender.
User and also the receiver.
The same transaction because this same transaction should reflect into both.
So I am adding into both right.
So this is into the transaction services and having this map user list of transaction.
Okay.
So here if you see that this is all the classes which get involved into this one.
And here if you see now if I run one flow.
So what I've done is in the payment gateway I am running just one flow that add user one.
I am first adding a user one okay, added the user one I'm calling controller add user two adding a
calling the controller added now user one.
User two added now I'm adding a bank to a user one so I in the instrument do I am passing bank account
number bank type for which user it has to be associated, ifSc code, some random and then calling the
instrument controller and adding this bank.
Similarly add card to user two.
So for user two I'm adding a card.
So same instrument do.
But now I am setting card related information card number instrument type is card CVV expiry days.
You can send which user it belongs to and calling the instrument controller.
And it will do add instrument right.
So now when you do add instrument right.
So controller will use make use of factory instrument type.
So it was card right.
So it will return card service.
Now ultimately this goes to a card service and it will create a card instrument mint and add into this
user list.
Right.
So we have added users.
We have added instruments to the user.
Now we are making a payment.
Now while making a payment I created a transaction due that hey this is the amount I need to transfer.
This is the center user ID, this is the receiver user ID, second user.
This is the debit instrument where the debit has to be done.
This is where the credit has to be done.
So credit has to be done to the user.
To debit is happen from user one this bank instrument ID right.
And now I am calling the make payment.
So when it is going to make payment it ultimately uh fetching the details, processing the payment.
It will store this details right.
It will create one transaction ID for us and store this history in both.
Okay, so once the payment is done now it just you can do get and see that all informations are properly
there or not.
So I'm doing get all instruments or user one.
So only one should come which is bank get all instruments of user two.
One should come.
That is your card.
Get all transaction history for which user user one.
So you will get uh history for this one right.
So if you run it you will see this details.
So let me run it.
So here is the result.
So here first is two user added.
After that we added a bank to user one.
Right.
So we are printing bank instrument created for user one.
So bank instrument created for user one.
What is the bank ID 73.
Right.
Then we added a card to user two.
So card instrument created for user two.
So this is the card created for user two ID of the instrument is 54.
Then we did a payment right after that.
What we are doing is we are fetching all the instruments for user one.
So we are calling instrument controller, get all instrument passing the user ID.
So we should get only one instrument that is bank which id is 73.
So user user instrument ID which we got is 73.
User ID which was created was 84.
And instrument type we got is bank right for.
Similarly for user two we should get card.
So user two instrument ID is 54, user ID for the user two was 17 and the instrument type was card.
Because we have created card only right after that the payment which we have done, we wanted to see
a transaction history.
Right.
So I am now seeing a transaction history right.
So I am calling transaction controller get transaction history for the user ID user detail one, which
is for 73.
So for 73 it is fetching user one transaction ID.
So this is the transaction ID created for what amount?
₹10.
And who is the receiver transaction dot receiver ID who is the receiver.
The user two was 54 right now user was 17.
This was bank card ID right.
This is the user 217.
So here transaction got also stored.
So even I can fetch the.
I can fetch the history for the user two also.
So user two details.
Right.
Because the same details we are storing for user two also.
So for user two, user two transaction ID again it would be same 63 should have come same amount and
receiver is also the same in that case.
Get me the sender.
Who is the sender?
Sender should be 73 here.
So let's run it again.
So transaction ID is again 56.
Amount is ten.
So here sender.
So this is sender right I have corrected here.
So sender is 96.
So user one send a payment to user two okay.
So this is the payment gateway.
My understanding that generally how it should be done.
But if you still have any doubt right please go through it again slowly because it's a very very big
design.
So please go it slowly.
Go through this class diagram again right.
I will share the notes for this class diagram.
And I will publish this code to the git lab.
Right.
So we can discuss more if you have any doubts with it.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
