# Network Protocols (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Coding.
So today what we are starting is our first video on high level design which is known as network protocols.
And as planned.
So here we will first cover network protocols all client models peer to peer model TCP UDP.
When to use.
WebSockets business TC because let's assume if you want to design WhatsApp which protocol to use.
If I want to create something like Google Meet for video calling streaming which protocol to use.
So we should know that.
So let's read the basics once what it is.
So let's start.
So the network protocol here you will see that whenever we have two.
Systems okay.
Two computers communicate over the network okay.
What rules and regulations it defines.
So network protocol defined rules so that two systems can communicate with each other.
Okay.
Even if both know the same language, they will be able to talk.
So that's where network protocol helps.
So here it defines some rules that if you want to send a message send it in this way.
So you must have studied in college that here we have seven kinds of network seven layers.
Seven layers I think.
Application layer.
Presentation layer.
Session layer.
Transport layer.
Network layer.
Data link layer kind of this thing.
So here we will cover all.
Here we will cover two important ones application layer and transport layer.
That's all.
So let's start with the application layer first.
So I will divide the application layer into two parts.
First client server protocols.
calls.
And what I will do is peer to peer protocols.
Okay.
In client server which protocols do we have HTTP.
FTP.
SMTP WebSockets.
These are all client server protocols in peer to peer one is like web RTC.
Okay so here the most important ones are our http websockets, web RTC.
These are the most important and widely used in a high level design okay.
So now let's quickly see what client server is and what peer to peer is okay.
In client server.
What happens here.
Let me create some space.
Let's take client server Okay.
In client server, what happens is that here we have one.
Web browser.
Which is considered as the client.
And we have another system which is called the web server which is running among us.
So we call it the server.
So what happens inside this is that in the client server model the client makes a request.
And the server gives a response back.
Okay.
So it's one way communication that the client will always initiate the talk with the server.
And the server will respond to it.
So whether you take HTTP, ftp, smtp it's like the same thing.
But WebSocket is a little different okay.
So how is WebSocket different.
Because in WebSocket there is also a client.
There is a server.
So here there is a client.
There is a server but WebSocket is a bidirectional communication so the client can talk to the server.
The server can talk to the client.
Okay.
That's the only difference.
But is it peer to peer.
No, WebSocket is not peer to peer.
Many times we make the mistake of calling WebSocket peer to peer.
So now look here.
If I have a server and I have client one.
And here I have client.
Two.
So the client can talk to the server.
The server can talk to client one.
The client can talk to the server.
The server can talk to client two.
But they will not talk to each other.
So it's not a peer to peer.
Okay.
And whenever we and this WebSocket.
Comes into play whenever we want to design something like WhatsApp telegram.
So whenever we want to design a messaging app we will use WebSocket here.
Right.
Because let's assume a message comes to the server.
So the server has to send it to the client.
The message is okay because the client will not keep asking every now and then.
Did the message come?
No, because that would be inefficient.
So whenever a message comes we needed the server to talk to.
So that's where the WebSocket comes into the picture.
Bidirectional talk.
Okay.
So now let's quickly see you already know what HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol is.
So it can be used.
So the first thing is that it is connection oriented okay.
So it is connection oriented.
Here a connection is created.
Okay.
And here we access web pages.
Inside web pages there are hypertext where we jump from one page to another.
And here what happens is then file transfer protocol.
In file transfer two connections are maintained.
One is the control connection, the other is the data connection.
Data connection can be created and disconnected, but the control connection always remains in FTP.
So this is the difference in SMTP.
SMTP is always used with iMap and Pop.
So SMTP is used for.
SMTP is used for sending the mail.
Sending the email iMap is used for receiving the mail.
Accessing the mail.
Accessing and reading the mail.
Pop pop3 is not used much these days in Pop3.
What happens is that whenever the mail is read, it kind of downloads it, and then it gets deleted
from there.
In iMap, what happens is that it's read from the server so we can read it on multiple computers, but
that's SMTP with iMap is widely used.
Okay.
So now you see even inside this there is a client.
So here what happens is there is an MTA message transfer agent.
It's client.
So these are users.
Users send messages here.
There is a user agent user send messages to MTA client.
MTA client talks to Mtas and message transfer agent.
Message transfer agent passes to the user agent again and here it delivers the mail.
The mail is coming from here.
Here we have mails and mail receive okay.
So it works in this way.
So here also you see you have a client here also we have a server okay.
So we will not go much deep into what SMTP is.
But what I want to tell you is that there is a client server.
You should understand what the difference between client server and peer to peer is.
Why WebSocket is a client server model okay, it's clear.
Now let's see once what is in peer to peer.
We have seen WebSocket understood this.
What happens in peer to peer is that here we have a server.
Here we have a client here I have one more client.
They all can talk with each other okay.
All three can talk to anyone and all can be clients.
All can be servers, whoever has the data.
Okay, so that's called peer to peer.
And here you will see that WebRTC is a peer to peer protocol.
Okay.
It doesn't need to go to the server.
It can directly talk between two machines.
That's why it is fast.
And now why is it fast?
Let's see one more here.
Now here it is.
Understood.
Now I am moving to the next one.
Transport layer.
Transport layer and network layer.
So now here we have two tcp ip and udp ip.
Okay.
So what happens in tcp IP.
In tcp IP you must know that here we first maintain a virtual connection okay.
Data goes through that virtual connection okay.
And here what happens is we make small packets.
Data packets.
And give them sequences.
Now those data packets are going okay.
The connection we made okay.
So here on the server side if two came one came.
But after that sequencing happens.
So here in TCP IP ordering is maintained.
And if any data packet doesn't arrive assume three didn't come.
Then what happens is acknowledgement and every packet is acknowledged.
Acknowledgement for one.
Acknowledgement for two.
If someone doesn't receive acknowledgement, it sends again.
So in TCP IP we understand what happens is that ordering takes place here is divided into small packets.
Ordering happens.
Acknowledgement happens.
Connection is maintained now in UDP.
What happens is that the data that needs to be sent, the first thing is no connection is maintained
here.
There are various connections and it divides it into small data grounds and sends it here.
It sends it parallelly on multiple virtual connections.
Okay?
Not on one connection.
So now it's possible here that the first packet ordering is maintained.
Ordering is not maintained because we are not doing ordering here.
So if the first packet came later, the one sent earlier came later.
This one came first.
So that's possible okay.
But what's the specialty of UDP.
It's fast.
And why is it fast.
You found out because we are not doing acknowledgment not maintaining connection not maintaining ordering
okay.
We just send it.
So it's just a best effort.
Just try it best.
It's best for it.
Mechanism to transfer data.
And when does UDP come into play UDP comes into play when we do live streaming Okay, when we do video
calling, when I'm doing video calling.
Assume I miss something.
Okay.
But you will keep listening ahead, right?
What was missed earlier?
You won't listen to it again.
So these are the use cases where UDP comes in picture okay.
And WebRTC uses UDP here.
At the lower layer okay.
So this is the protocol WebRTC protocol UDP protocol to transfer data.
And because it's fast because I'm live streaming.
So my data is fast access.
So wherever I require data to be fast I will use UDP wherever ordering is not an issue.
Data packet loss is okay.
So it's okay.
Okay.
And when to use WebSocket.
You found out when we have to design a messaging app we will use WebSocket there.
Why?
Because I need two way communication.
Because if user one here you see user two send a message to user one.
Client one.
Then the message came to the server.
Now the server has to tell the client that you received the message.
Okay, so I have to talk server to client two.
So it's two way communication.
So I will use WebSocket when I need two way communication.
In case of messaging app and otherwise based on the requirement I will use http.
I will use FTP.
We never use FTP.
You must have seen because in FTP the data connection that is made.
Guys it's not encrypted.
So here is the client.
Here is the server okay.
Here a control connection is made.
And here a data connection is made.
So whatever file is transferred from this data connection that is not encrypted.
So that's why FTP is not secure.
That's why we are not using it.
That's why we are using Https secure transfer protocol.
Hypertext Transfer Protocol secure.
So we are using HTTP that's why.
So guys overall you understood what network protocols are okay.
What client server is what peer to peer is and in which use cases we will use them.
Mostly HTTP will be used when we design a messaging app.
Then WebSocket will be used when we make something like live streaming video, video calling, etc.
then UDP will be used, WebRTC will be used and when to use TCP we also found out.
So with this our first base is done and we will move to the second.
So let's start from the base okay.
We.
Will cover up very quickly too.
But the base should be good.
When to use what.
Okay guys if you like the video please subscribe to it and definitely share it.
Iron.
And have a good day.
Bye.
