Hey guys.
Welcome to concept encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
So yesterday I made a video on Springboot interceptors.
And I see a lot of comments regarding.
Filters versus interceptors.
And what is filters specifically.
Uh, so I what I anticipated from this is that there are a lot of doubts between when to use filter,
when to use interceptor.
What is the exact difference.
So today I will discuss, uh, about this.
And I hope that after this video your doubts will get clarified.
And like you can easily decide when to go for filter.
When to go for interceptor.
Okay, let's start without wasting any time.
So let's before even seeing further.
Right.
Let's see this one liner definition.
Right.
And even though if you don't understand any of these terms, it's okay.
Because once we go further after that we will come back again.
And then we read this.
It will make more sense.
So filter it.
Intercept the HTTP request and response before they reach to the servlet.
Okay.
And what is interceptor says?
It's specific to spring framework and intercept HTTP request and response before they reach to the controller.
Or I would say that before they reach to the controller and after servlet.
Okay, so read it one more time.
It filter intercept the HTTP request and response before the request.
Reach to the servlet and interceptor is after servlet but before controller.
Okay so just keep this in mind and we'll proceed further.
This two definition will get clear soon.
So if you remember this diagram which I have discussed in the first video of Spring boot discussion,
and in yesterday also in the, uh, interceptor video.
So we know that right?
When a request comes in, our servlet container catches it and it will pass it to one of the servlet.
So in Spring Boot, we have a dispatcher servlet dispatcher servlet takes care of couple of things right.
Which controller this request should go right.
And it will create an instance and it will ultimately invoke that controller.
Okay.
So this is I hope it's clear.
But now let's see this one.
I have further drilled down this diagram to understand the filter and interceptor more.
When the request comes in.
So here if you say when the request comes in it goes to our servlet container.
In that case let's say Tomcat.
Now when the Tomcat or servlet container get this HTTP request What it will do is before assigning to
a servlet.
Particular servlet, our filter comes into the picture.
We can have multiple filter.
Filter one.
Filter two.
It's generally called as a chain of filters.
Right.
So after filter one filter two will run.
If there are more filters that will run.
And after that one of the specific servlet will get involved.
Right.
Now let's say that if we are running a spring boot then dispatcher servlet will get invoked.
And this dispatcher servlet.
Now here is our interceptor.
So before this dispatcher servlet handles the request to controller our interceptors comes into the
picture here.
So with this diagram now you should see that where the filter lies in and where the interceptors lies
in.
So filter lies in Listen before the request handed over to Soviet and interceptors lies before the request
handed over to controllers.
Okay, so now with this one, few doubts might have come to your mind that, hey, first of all, what
is Soviet?
Is it possible that more than one Soviet is there?
Let me tell you about this one.
So what happened is, first of all, what is Soviet?
Okay, sublet is nothing but a Java class which accepts the incoming request, process it and returns
the response.
Okay.
So in you can say that it is a play, like a plain Java code itself.
It's our business logic sublet.
Its purpose is that whatever the requests coming in process it and return the response also.
Okay.
That's what sublet is, You remember that, uh, if you have worked in monolithic services.
Right.
Let's say that we have Rest APIs.
Also, we have Soap APIs.
Also.
We have something called expose API for file uploading multiple different tasks.
So what we can do is we can write different servlets for this.
So I can create one servlet which handles only Rest APIs.
I can create another servlet which handles Soap APIs.
I can create another servlet which can handle only file uploads.
So multiple.
Or you can say that you can create one more servlets which handle only static data like images or something.
Okay.
So when the request comes to the servlet container it decide that hey this request will be handled by
which which servlet.
So each servlet can configure that.
hey, this rest API.
Let's say that this can configure the hey I can handle slash API slash star.
So anything which starts with slash API, I can handle it.
Okay.
Similarly soap API can provide some configuration.
Which servlet container will use and decide which servlet to invoke.
Now in the microservices right.
And now let's say that when we are discussing about spring boot specific and it's a microservice, let's
say that it's not a monolithic where I have a static data also and something Soap API's and all.
So now when you say that when we discuss more about microservices and specifically Spring Boot, so
there the need of multiple servlets are reduced.
In 20 1716 when we used to code we used to have multiple servlet.
And this is servlets are nothing but a plain Java code right?
So whatever the controller you are writing is just like a specific APIs like this is let's say slash
API slash user, another controller slash API slash let's say order.
But here this servlet accept anything slash API star.
So anything start with slash API.
This dispatcher servlet will take care of it earlier.
We don't use to have this controller in this servlet itself.
We used to have all the code logic and we have factory here okay.
If it is user go and perform this logic.
If it is order go and perform this logic.
Okay.
So what I mean to say here is that now when we are specifically doing microservices and spring boot,
the need of multiple servlets has been reduced.
So mostly our dispatcher servlet, if you see the default configuration is slash slash asterisk means
mean anything?
Any API dispatcher servlet would be able to handle.
So whatever the request coming is to the Tomcat, if Tomcat sees that okay request is started with slash
and anything, it will just pass it to the dispatcher servlet dispatcher servlet will pass it to one
of the controller.
Okay.
So now you know what is servlet.
Okay.
And this is when I show that we can create multiple servlet.
If we want servlet one I can configure it to rest API.
Servlet two can be configured for Soap API's.
Similarly dispatcher servlet.
Default is slash this.
Okay.
And today if even if you want hey dispatcher servlet I only want to handle slash API slash stress that
also you can do.
Okay I won't go further into that how you can do it.
But in the at the configuration class itself you can do that.
You can update this configuration to this and only only those APIs will come to a dispatcher servlet.
Not all.
So with this diagram, at least now we are clear that filter is before the request, get assigned to
a particular servlet, and interceptor is after one of the servlet is assigned specifically.
So this is very, very, uh, spring related part.
So if I just, uh, pick a red color, I would say that this is very, very specific to spring framework.
So interceptor is you can say that two two points, one is after the servlet is chosen.
And which servlet specifically spring boot.
So dispatcher servlet is very very specific for spring boot.
So interceptor is nothing but a spring boot concept which I would say.
So once the spring boot servlet which is dispatcher servlet is chosen.
So then before this dispatcher servlet, assign the request to the controller intercept intercept it.
And for filter you can say that before the servlet container, assign the request to one of the servlet
before that itself filters comes into the picture.
So now you are clear that when to use filter whenever you want to put a logic which is common for all
the servlets like spring boot security like spring boot.
Security.
So spring boot security is uses filter because it is applied all HTTP requests and response and irrespective
of the servlets because it's a very, very generic code, it's not very specific to our application
or something.
So it can be applied to multiple servlets also.
So that's why it uses a filter.
So it lies in this area.
Okay.
And whenever you want something specific to your application particular subnet.
Okay.
I want let's say this dispatcher subnet.
So let's say that call this as a rest API servlet.
If anything is specific to Rest API servlet then you can add interceptor for this.
Okay.
So you got it.
Anything is specific to a particular servlet.
You can use interceptor anything which is common for all the servlets you can use filter.
Okay.
So this is what I have explained it here.
So filter is used when we want to intercept HTTP request and response and logic agnostic of the underlying
servlets.
We can have many filters and have ordering between them.
You can provide an ordering which one to run in which orders.
Similarly, in intercept is used when we want to intercept HTTP request and response same, and add
logic specific to a particular servlet.
In this case, interceptor is mostly a spring boot concept.
You can say that.
So we can say that specific to a spring boot servlet dispatcher servlet.
So it intercept it, whatever the request is coming.
Servlet container whatever the request is coming to dispatcher servlet.
Let's say out of many let's assume that there are many servlet.
So whatever it is coming to dispatcher servlet.
This interceptor will only take care intercept that only it can't intercept servlet to a request right.
So that's what I mean here specific to a particular servlet.
We can have many interceptors and have ordering between them two also.
This is also possible.
We can have more than one interceptors also.
I will tell you how you can have.
So here multiple interceptors and it's ordering how to write it.
So in previous video, I already told you how you can add one interceptor I showed you by creating one
custom inter interceptor and there we discussed about pre handle post handle after completion.
Okay.
So here I will show you how you can add more than one interceptor and ordering also.
So here if you see that one more thing is the pre handle.
So pre handle is something which returns true or false right.
This post handle returns void after completion.
Returns void.
This pre handle returns true and false.
So if pre handle return false.
Next filter and controller will not get invoked.
So here in the code itself we can check.
So here if you see the what was that dispatcher servlet apply pre handle.
If pre handle return false this become true and it will just simply return okay.
Your next your next controller and next or not.
Next filter, next controller and next interceptor will not get invoked itself.
So how to create?
How to add more than one interceptor.
So now let's say that from the previous video you already know that how to create one interceptor.
Similarly I have created another interceptor and I have auto wired here and from previous video you
also know that how to register it.
Similarly, you can also add one more time registry dot add interceptor.
You can add the second one also, and you see that this sequence is actually followed.
So since you added my custom interceptor fun, my custom interceptor two.
So this interceptor would be executed first.
This would be executed second.
So now you have interceptor one.
Interceptor two.
So when the request comes in so request goes like this.
And response goes like this.
So this is your request.
And this is your response.
So when the request comes in what it goes one interceptor one request and then interceptor two.
And when the response goes out.
So response what you will see interceptor two will get invoked first then interceptor one because interceptor
two interceptor one like this.
Okay.
So here I am showing you the output.
Right.
So only I have put a catalog in pre handle post handle and after completion.
So here if you see when the request comes in.
So this is the order is maintained.
So interceptor one it is going first.
So first it will go inside pre handle pre handle of interceptor one.
So request is coming right.
So interceptor one then interceptor two.
So interceptor one then pre handle of interceptor two.
Right?
Then your code logic, then your code logic.
Now it has to response goes out right then post handle of interceptor two.
First post handle of interceptor one.
Similarly, after completion of two and then one.
And ultimately it goes out okay.
So this is how the sequence is maintained.
And how to add filter.
You can add your filters also like here.
If you see either Jakarta Dot servlet you can use or here in the Java X dot you will find filter.
You can choose any of this library.
So I am creating my filter one.
Implement this filter so it has three method in it do filter and destroy.
So in it like uh once the object of this my filter is get created, This method is get invoked only
one time.
If you have to initialize something generally I've never seen via.
I have specifically initialized something.
But even if.
Let's say you want to set up some name or something, you want to specifically initialize something
in this, you can do that, right?
But this is the main part do filter.
So do filter is like do something before you process the request.
So this is like do filter right next here if there are multiple filter filter one.
Filter two filter three.
So currently let's say this my filter one.
After that when you do do filter it will just call the next thing.
If the next part is filter two, it will call it.
If the next part is let's say code logic itself, no more filter, then code logic will get invoked,
right?
And the similar behavior is maintained in the filter also.
So when the request comes in it goes in here.
Filter one, filter two, filter three, and the.
When the response goes out, it goes into reverse.
Filter three.
Filter two.
Filter one.
So do filter is nothing but process the rest of the code.
If you are at filter one, the process next of the code is filter two.
If you are filter two, next code is filter three.
If filter three, next is your actual code logic and then reverse.
So this is the after processing it.
Similarly, I have added another filter my filter two implements filter the same thing.
I have just putted the logic my filter two inside process it something my filter two complete here.
My filter one is there okay, now this is the configuration.
So here I am creating a bean of my filter.
My first filter.
In this I am doing its registration.
So this is the process how you can create an object of registration bean be.
You can set the filter.
So I am creating a new object because here if you see that I am not putting at the rate component,
otherwise I don't have to create a new object.
So I am creating an object.
What is the filter?
This filter can take care of what all URL.
So I have put slash asterisk right and I have set the specific order two.
So just specifically purposely I have given that order two for the filter one and for filter two, I
have specifically given the order one, just to show you that, uh, through this order we can maintain
the sequence.
Similarly, I created a second filter.
So I have created an object of a registration bin.
Set the filter for this okay.
My filter two what all added what all for this specific URL pattern.
This filter will get invoked and the order I have kept it one.
And I have written this registration bin.
That's all.
Now when you see the output.
So now you have filter two and then filter one because its order is one for the filter two.
Right.
And this order is two.
I have specifically purposely mentioned this.
So now when the request comes in first it will invoke filter two and then filter one.
And during the response reverse my filter two inside.
So first it goes here my inside this one.
Then it will go.
What it would happen is it will go inside this my filter two inside and do do filter process.
Rest of the code.
Now the process.
Rest of the code.
Here there is more filter.
Yes.
Filter one.
So it will goes to the next filter.
My filter is filter one inside.
Now this filter one it goes inside printed.
This do filter means processed.
Next of the code.
No more filters.
Code logic will run.
Hitting.
So this is my business logic.
Code logic.
Now the response goes out.
So first it will goes out of this my filter one completed.
And then after that it will goes out of my filter two completed.
Okay.
So this is how you can create filter.
And if you add both interceptors.
So if you add both the logic from the above one right.
And you run the output here, if you see this would happen.
So your is like a servlet container, then filter, then servlet and then controller.
So here you have uh this is your filter.
And then this will be your interceptor.
So first filter will run my filter one.
So I have just here by doing that I just change the order properly?
Filter one I have changed the order to one and filter two I change the order to two just so that it
meant it.
Don't confuse like filter one y second.
So I've corrected the order here.
So now when the request to filter one filter two.
Then here we have interceptor one, interceptor two.
So now request coming is inside filter one.
Then it goes inside filter two.
Right after filter two.
Uh there is no more filters.
So it will pass it to one of the servlet and after the servlet.
So this is your code logic here.
So after.
So this is your servlet now servlet before it passed to the controller it will goes to the interceptor
one.
Right.
So inside pre handle of interceptor one.
Now request goes to interceptor two.
Now ultimately your code logic, your controller.
Now the response goes out.
Right.
So first interceptor two will get invoked.
Right.
So this is all your interceptor.
So post handle of interceptor two.
Post handle of interceptor one.
Then after completion of interceptor two after completion of interceptor one, ultimately filter two
and ultimately filter one and goes out.
So you got it.
Like how the sequence generally maintain.
What's the difference between filter and interceptor and when to use it?
See, if somebody says that, hey, you can change the header.
You can change the request.
You can change the response.
You can change it into interceptor.
Also you can change it into filter also.
But when to use right.
Interceptor also has access to request and response.
Filter also has access to request and response, but the only thing is what specific purpose you are
using.
If it is generic, no matter about servlets, different different servlets use it at filter.
If it is very specific to.
You can say that the spring framework and very, very specific to your one particular servlet.
Then go for interceptor.
Okay I hope this clarifies, but if there is any out we can discuss further and we'll see what question
can come in.
I'll try to answer those.
And if you have any more additional information about this that hey, in this scenario, filter is better
than interceptor or this I don't consider filter or interceptor is better or not.
Both are totally different.
Both are totally different at different places.
But still, if you have such points, we can further discuss more on that.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.