# Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP) Solution

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And from the previous video of Solid principles.
Right.
I got lot many comments that hey for the Liskov substitution principle we know what is the problem but
how to avoid it.
What is the solution.
So in this quick video I will tell you about the risk of the problem plus its solution.
Also how to resolve it.
Okay, so I will use the same example also.
And so let's start with this.
So in the Liskov substitution you already know that if you have a parent class and you have a child
class.
So what does Liskov substitution principle says that you should be able to swap the object substitute
the objects without breaking the code.
Let's say currently I have let's say my parent object equals to new C1.
And I have certain code.
It is working fine.
Now I substitute with this new C1 with, let's say another object, another child object, new C2,
then this program should not break.
It still should be working.
If I change with new C3, it should still be working.
So what does Liskov substitution principle say?
That if you swap or substitute the child or parent objects, the program should not break.
Okay, now let's first understand and then I will tell you a solution.
So let's say I have created a vehicle class.
So vehicle has two things.
Get number of wheels.
So by default I am returning two.
Uh has engine.
By default it is returning.
True.
Yes, it has engine.
So now I have created two child class.
One is motorcycle.
Right.
So motorcycle get number of wheels.
Two.
So that's why it didn't override it and has engine.
Yes.
It is also true.
So that's why it didn't override this method.
So motorcycle is one child class another is car.
So car also extends vehicle.
So it's another child of vehicle.
And it has four vehicles instead of two.
So it is overriding this method.
Get number of fields for very simple parent child relationship.
And let's say this is the client code.
And in the client code I created a list.
And in the list I have added a motorcycle and a car okay.
So list of vehicle, list of vehicle.
And in the list of vehicle I added one, I added one motorcycle and then I added one car.
Okay.
Now what I am doing is I'm iterating one by one and just printing.
Does vehicle has engine dot two string.
Let's say this is my business code okay.
Vehicle dot has engine dot two string.
So first vehicle is motorcycle.
So motorcycle dot has engine.
So it will call this.
It will return true.
Then it will.
The next object is new car.
So new car dot has engine.
So car has engine method.
Okay.
It hasn't override it.
So it will call this method.
So it will return true dot two string.
So this will work so very simple that I created two object.
But now when the problem will occur problem will occur that I add one child which is now down south
downsizing its capability like it is removing certain capabilities.
Okay.
So that is the problem.
So here if you see that now motorcycle is same, car is same I am adding bicycle.
And in the bicycle.
Bicycle doesn't have engine.
So what I have done is I overriding this has engine method and return start returning null right.
Because this is a boolean object.
So I start returning null now in the client code, if I start adding this object apart from motorcycle
car, and if I added this bicycle, This will throw a null pointer exception y vehicle when the bicycle
come.
Bicycle dot has engine.
Yes it is overrided what it will return null.
You will do null dot two string which is a null pointer exception.
So that's what Liskov principle says, that all the child, all the child classes should be able to
substitute each other without breaking the code.
But now here you have added such child class inside a vehicle, right?
And if you add it, it will your break your code.
Now.
Okay.
What?
Why?
Because see vehicle has engine.
Now bicycle has removed that capability from you.
So it has instead of increasing the capability it has reduced that capability.
And now there is a chance that our client code will break.
Now assume that if there are certain this code like at 100 places.
is right.
So all the places you have to now change put a if else condition.
Okay.
If it is an instance of bicycle, don't call has engine.
If it is an instance of bicycle don't call this okay.
So that is an issue with the Liskov substitution principle.
And that's what it tries to solve how it tries to solve it.
So now I have a vehicle class.
So in the parent class put only very generic method which are common for all.
So in the vehicle what is the generic number of wheels.
Right.
So by default I am returning two.
But I have taken out the very specific let's say has engine or not.
So now has engine.
So I created one more class engine wheels vehicle engine vehicles.
Right.
Which is taking out from vehicle.
Now it has certain methods which are specific to this.
So it has engine and from engine vehicle.
I have created a one car.
One motorcycle.
Okay.
And bicycle I have taken from this vehicle.
Right.
So it doesn't has engine.
So if you see that it is don't worry about that.
Also because it is from the parent class only get number of wheels.
Is there all the generic methods a specific one.
You create another child class and put that one and only create child class out of those which required
those.
So you got it.
Vehicle I have created an engine vehicle and from engine vehicle I have created car and motorcycle.
Those who have engine but bicycle doesn't have engine.
So it just taking from the vehicle.
Now let's see different client codes.
Let's say first.
Now here if you see that I am creating a list of vehicle parent object, this one.
If you are creating this one you can add motorcycle also cycle also bicycle also and you can only call
the method which is available or visible at vehicle.
So you can only call get number of wheels.
So there is no chance that this code will break because bicycle also has this number of wheels, so
this will work.
Now let's say another client code.
Now I am again creating a vehicle added motorcycle car, bicycle.
Now I am trying to access the engine.
Will you be able to access it?
No, you won't be able to access it because vehicle is not aware about has engine method only engine.
Vehicle has aware of this has engine method.
So even if you added bicycle and you are trying to add, you will be only able to access the methods
which all aware of vehicle.
Which vehicle aware of, right?
So you won't be able to access this one so you are safe from this.
So this is a compile time error.
Now let's say another example.
Now I have taken engine.
Vehicle.
List of engine.
Vehicle.
So engine vehicle you can add car.
Because this is an engine vehicle child you can add motorcycle.
This is an engine vehicle.
But can you add bicycle.
No.
Bicycle is the child of vehicle.
So in the engine vehicle object you can add motorcycle.
You can add car.
But see it's a compile time error if you add a bicycle.
So there is even if you call has engine you won't be able to add bicycle itself.
So your code it's a compile time error itself.
Your code will not break when you will run.
So you got it.
How to avoid it now write.
Very simple right?
It's just like using a inheritance properly.
So this is how we avoid Liskov substitution principle.
Okay guys, I hope this should be clear.
Now if you have any question, any doubt let me know.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
