Hey guys.
Welcome to concept Encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the third part of Transaction Management of Spring Boot we are going to cover the isolation
level.
And this is very very important topic as part of Hld.
Also how do you maintain a concurrency and as well in day to day life if you are working?
So let's start without wasting any time.
So if I want to define isolation level in one line, I would say that it tells how the changes made
by one transaction are visible to other transaction running in parallel.
Right?
If you have confusion with this line, don't worry, we are going to see a lot of examples which will
make clear this sentence.
So if you have to use this isolation, how we can use is that when you are using this annotation at
the rate transaction, you can use this like isolation equals to isolation.
Dot read committed.
There are four types of isolation.
Read.
Uncommitted.
Read.
Committed.
Repeatable.
Committed and serializable.
So there are four types of isolation level.
So which type of isolation you have to use.
You can provide it here.
Let's say if you are not providing anything here, if you are not providing anything here, what would
be the default isolation level.
So C default isolation level depend upon the DB which we are using.
We can't say that hey default is always read committed or repeatable committed.
No it depends upon your DB and it might change in future also.
Okay so let's say all mostly relational database use read committed.
But it is possible that some of the relational database might use repetitive computing, right?
So we have to properly read what our DB are using.
If you are using Postgres or MySQL, you have to read properly that which isolation is the default isolation
IT support, right.
Why it is important.
Too much because of concurrency okay.
If you are using read uncommitted, it has very high concurrency means so many requests can run in parallel.
If you are using serializable, the concurrency is very low.
Very low means very less transaction can run in parallel.
Now you can ask me that concurrency high is good, right?
We want as much transaction can run in parallel.
So we should always use read uncommitted.
No.
So see it's always like if there is an advantage, there is a disadvantage also.
So we have to understand properly in which and when we have to use what.
That is actually what important is.
So before I come to read uncommitted, read committed, repetitive, committed or serious serializable.
Before I come to isolation level, let's first understand these problems.
There are three problems which actually this isolation level resolved.
Okay.
So let's first start with what is dirty read problem.
So what is dirty read problem.
Dirty read problem says that transaction A read the uncommitted data of other transaction.
Okay.
And if other transaction get rolled back, the uncommitted data which is read by transaction A is known
as dirty Read.
Now what?
Let's see this definition with an example.
So let's say this is the time.
This is transaction A.
This is transaction B and this is let's say a current DB status at time T1.
Both the transaction started in parallel begin transaction.
Begin transaction.
And this is the current state of the DB id one two, three.
And status of the column status is currently free at time t2 transaction B is updating the row which
has id one two, three and changing it to booked.
So DB status is currently 123 and status is booked.
But at this point of time transaction B has not committed.
Right.
It is still in progress.
Transaction is still in progress.
It is not yet committed or rollback.
It is still running okay.
So this status booked is This change by transition B, but it is not committed.
This transaction is not committed.
So at time T3 the transaction a read the row with ID 123.
So in the dirty read the transactions.
Also read the uncommitted data.
So even this status which is changed by transaction B is not committed yet.
Still it reads it.
So transaction A is able to read what is the status book.
Okay.
Now at time T4.
Now let's say transaction B some issue has come and does the rollback.
And now you know when rollback happened all the changes which it has done they again goes back to the
previous state.
So it again goes back from to free.
But the problem here is transaction.
Hey has read the Uncommitted Changes book, which is now not there into the DB.
This is known as dirty read transaction.
A is now suffered from a dirty read problem because it has read a row which has uncommitted data.
Right.
So the transaction which is not committed all the changes is also read by other transaction.
Then it is known as dirty read problem.
Okay.
So if this problem is clear let's move to another problem which is called Non-repeatable read problem.
Okay.
If suppose transaction A reads the same row several times and there is a chance that it get different
value than it is known as Non-repeatable read problem.
Let's understand with an example of what this definition says.
Let's say this is the transaction A, this is the current DB status at time T1 transaction started,
and this is the current state of db id one status free at time t2.
A read call has been made by transaction A for the id one.
So what is the status is read free okay.
Now let's say at time T3, some other transaction has happened and changed the status from free to booked
and also committed the changes so committed also.
So at time T4, if transaction A again runs the same query, read row id one.
Trying to read the same row.
It will not get the same data.
It will get data got changed.
Now what is the status getting booked.
Okay so that's what it is called as non repeatable read.
Read the same row several times and there is a chance that you get different value.
So this problem is clear like okay what this problem means that if you read a row multiple times there
is a chance that whatever the value you were getting before, now it's get changed.
And how like this is one kind of a use case where this value get changed.
And the third problem is called the read problem.
The phantom read problem says that if suppose transaction A executes same query several times, but
there is a chance that the rows returns are different itself, then it is known as phantom read problem.
Let's understand this definition with an example.
Let's say at time t one, the transaction a started the transaction begin transaction and this is the
current state of the DB.
Current status is Id1 is status is free ID row ID three is status is booked.
Currently let's say two rows are there.
So at time t two transaction A is trying to read a row where ID greater than zero and id less than five.
So what all rows will come, ID greater than zero and ID less than five.
So this both the rows will come right.
So it will read two rows with ID one and three.
Now let's say at time T3 some other transaction inserted the row with id two and committed also.
So now let's say that this new this is the new row has been added by some other transaction at time
T3 and also committed.
Okay now at time T for the transaction, A is running the same query again.
Okay, read row with id greater than zero and id less than five.
Now this time there is a chance that rows returns are different.
Now three rows are coming ID 123.
Because all three are satisfying this condition ID greater than zero and id less than five.
So this is known as phantom read problem when you are getting different rows itself with the same query.
Let me also tell you about de-blocking because this is also required.
So there are two types of de-blocking one is shared lock, shared lock and another is exclusive lock.
So shared locks is also represented by s exclusive lock is also represented by sometime X okay.
So shared lock is also known as Reed lock, and Exclusive Lock is also known as Right Lock.
Now.
Now let's say that I have a DB in which I have one row called.
Let's say ID is one and status is free.
Let's say one row is present.
So what is read lock or shared lock.
So now let's say that there are two transaction transaction one and transaction two.
So let's say that if transaction one wants to read this id one it can take shared lock.
Right?
I can represent the shared lock with s take on ID one.
It has taken a shared lock on ID one.
So currently somebody is taking a shared lock on this one.
Who?
Transaction one.
Now let's say that transaction T2T2 also want to read this row.
Will it be able to read it?
Yes, because shared lock can be, as the name says, that can be shared by multiple transaction, but
only for the reading purpose.
So transaction two also want to read it.
It can also put a shared lock and it can read this same row.
So what shared lock says that more than one transaction can put a shared lock and you can read the value.
That's all.
You can only read, but you cannot modify anything.
You can only read in other way.
The exclusive lock.
Let's say you have this ID one and status is free.
Transaction one and transaction two.
Now let's say if transaction one has to change something in this row right.
And it don't want any other transaction should either read or either should write.
Then it can go for Exclusive lock.
Exclusive lock on ID one.
So what exclusive lock has been taken by T1?
Now let's say that if transaction two want to read or write on ID one, will it be able to do that?
No, because there is a exclusive lock present.
Exclusive lock says that once the exclusive lock is taken by any transaction, no other transaction
would be able to even read or write.
So that's where it says that if a lock is shared lock, can another shared lock be taken?
Yes, you can take and you can read the value.
But if I have a shared lock, can another exclusive lock can be taken?
No.
If any transaction has taken a shared lock, let's say transaction one has taken a shared lock, right?
It has taken a shared lock.
And if transaction two says that hey, I want exclusive lock on T1, can I take it?
It will check.
Hey, somebody has already taken shared lock.
You can't take exclusive lock.
Only you can take shared lock.
You can read it, but you cannot write it till this shared lock is present.
Now, if a transaction has exclusive lock, right?
If a transaction has exclusive lock, let's say T1, can another transaction take shared lock on it?
No.
When exclusive lock is taken, you can't even read it.
You can't even write it, so you can't even read it.
You can't even write it.
You can't take do exclusive lock also.
Okay.
So by this point of time, two types of locking and this three problems if it is clear, then you will
clearly understand what this isolation actually solves the problem.
So read uncommitted isolation level solves nothing.
You will have a dirty read problem.
You will have non-repeatable problem and you will have phantom read problem.
Also why you can ask write interviewer can ask why read uncommitted has all three problems because the
read uncommitted do not even take read law.
Do not even apply the write lock also.
So now let's say that if in db I have an id one and the status is free, transaction one and transaction
two, transaction one reads it.
It do not put any lock it, just read it write Right.
And transaction one.
Transaction two want to write it?
It can directly go ahead and change it.
There is no locking at all.
If there is no locking, there is like whichever transaction one they can change it and the same dirty
read problem can come.
Transaction two can change it to booked, which transaction T one can read it.
And what if transaction two got rollback?
The same dirty read can come similarly the same non-repeatable read and the phantom read problem.
Whichever we have discussed above, the same thing can come because no locking has been acquired by
read uncommitted.
So the one follow up question, which comes also right then why this isolation level exists.
When all three problems are present, no locks are acquired.
Then why do this isolation level exist itself?
This isolation level is only used when you have only read application.
If you have an application where the use case is only read, you have a static data and you only read,
then only this isolation level is useful.
Otherwise it is of no use.
Like it's very risky to use this because of all three problems which can come.
So it has to be used very, very like.
If you are properly clear that these three problems will not impact your business logic or but, you
know, right, concurrency would be high, concurrency is very high.
Why?
Because there is no locking.
No, no transaction is stopping at all.
If they want it, they can get the data.
If they want to write, they can write it simply right.
There is no wait time for anybody.
There is no locking at the DB row.
But this is risky.
The another one is read committed.
So these two are pretty like you can say that mostly used right depending upon the use cases.
Read committed and repeatable read.
So read committed solves dirty read dirty.
Read possible.
No, it solves this problem.
So this is solved, but it does not solve non-repeatable read and it do not solve the phantom read problem,
but only solve dirty read problem.
So what read committed does is it puts a while reading it.
Put a shared lock right?
And as soon as it read it, it releases the lock.
As soon as that read is done.
And for the right exclusive lock acquired and keep till the end of the transaction.
Now let's say that you have.
Transaction one.
Transaction two.
Right now here the same thing.
If transaction one.
So let's say this is the ID one and status is free.
Now transaction one want to read it ID one.
So what it will do is it will first take a shared log on ID one and it will read the value.
Let's say read the value status free.
As soon as it's read it it release the lock.
So lock has been released.
So earlier it take a shared lock by transaction one.
As soon as the read is done, shared lock has been removed.
Okay, now dirty read problem is solved, right?
That, uh.
If it want to write anything, it will take a exclusive lock.
Now let's say transaction one.
Want to write on this data.
So what it will do is it will take exclusive log by T1.
It will take an exclusive log right on Id1.
Now let's say it will change the status to booked.
It will change the status to booked.
But now here if you see it will release this exclusive log only at the end of the transaction.
End of transaction.
End of transaction could be either commit or rollback.
Only after this only it will release this log.
So now since it has taken this, if now in let's say this is time one time two at time three.
Now let's say at time T3, any other transaction wants to read it will transaction two will be able
to read it.
No because exclusive log is there.
So transaction two would not be able to read it.
So it is safe from the Dirty Read program.
You can't read it till it is not committed or rollback right?
But does read uncommitted is not solving the non-repeatable problem.
No, it it is not solving it.
Why?
Because let's say that here it is running this query.
Now let's say that it is running this query transaction one read ID one.
And currently what is the status it got.
Let's say free.
This is the DB status for now.
Uh ID equals to one and status is free.
This is the DB state for now table state.
So at time Transaction.
T1 currently has read it.
Okay, so this is at time one.
Now at time two because see during read it just take a shared lock and after reading it release the
lock.
Also it releases it.
So now at time t two transaction two can like take an exclusive lock and update it.
Start begin the transaction let's say update the row and change the ID equals to one to booked.
Okay so at time T2, some other transaction has taken an exclusive lock here and change its status from
free to booked.
Okay.
And also committed also now the transaction is completed.
Now at time three again, the transaction one is running the same query, read ID one what status it
will get now booked right.
So see the value got changed.
So that's why the read committed do not solve the non-repeatable read problem.
And similarly the phantom read problem is also not resolved, right?
The same thing.
You can change the same to let's say read query is like a range query, read ID one, read ID one,
or you can say that read row where ID greater than zero and less than five.
Read all this rows.
So first time let's say you get two rows.
But since this is only reading so it will put a shared lock which will ultimately, after reading,
get removed, it will release the lock.
But let's say some other time.
Time T2 some other transaction has inserted new row.
Let's say some other transaction.
Insert new row.
The same like what we see above the phantom.
Right.
Insert new row and it begin and committed the transaction also.
Right.
So exclusive lock taken and after committed the transaction two the lock has been shared.
Lock has been exclusive.
Lock has been removed.
Now at time t three the same transaction T1 running the same query read all rows greater than zero and
less than five.
Now this time it will get earlier it get two rows.
Now maybe it possible that it get this row also if it follows within the range.
So now it might get three rows like what we see above right.
So No, it does not solve the phantom read problem also.
Why?
Because while reading it, it just takes a shared lock, but it releases it as soon as possible.
Okay, but during writing it, take an exclusive lock and keep it till the end of the transaction.
So that's why it is able to resolve the dirty read.
But since the shared lock is released, uh, some other transaction may be after that change, something
committed properly and the transaction and during running the same query, it might get the different
data.
So it do not solve this too.
Then there is something called repeatable read.
Repeatable read solves.
Dirty read.
Problem solved.
Also solve the non-repeatable read.
So these two are solved, but it do not solve this phantom read problem.
How the repetitive read.
So during reading it, acquire the shared lock and released only at the end of the transaction.
Not like just after reading release it know once it taken a shared lock on a particular row, it will
release only at the end of the transaction.
Similarly, right once the exclusive lock acquired released only at the end of the transaction.
So the same you can try are replicating it and understand with the same two transactions.
I have transaction one and transaction two right at time one.
Let's say if this is the DB row one and id is one, and the status is free at time one, it has acquired
a shared lock on ID one.
So shared lock has been taken by transaction one.
Now let's say begin transaction.
Now, this lock will not be released until this transaction is not ended and can be happen through either
commit or it could be rollback.
So let's say this is something whenever like let's say whenever whatever the time would be, some I
whatever the time would be till this time.
This lock is now not going to remove.
Okay.
So other transactions can only read it.
You can only read it.
But can any other let's say in mid here in this time mid let's say time T2 can this take an exclusive
lock and update this one.
No.
Because when the shared lock is taken you know that you can't update it.
Only you can read it.
So you you you will not get a exclusive lock.
So no matter how much time you will read the same row I read again here at time T2, you will get the
same status here.
Also you got free here also you got free if later on.
Also you would do read here.
Also you would get free.
Okay, so now it's you have resolved the non-repetitive problem by putting a shared log and keep it
till the end of the transaction.
No other transition in now between this time can change it, right?
And also the dirty read also resolved because dirty read dirty read problem.
It's get resolved by because the lock exclusive lock.
Now let's say that the same row transaction one.
Transaction two.
Now let's say that transaction one wants to update it.
It take an exclusive lock on row one and wants to change it from free to booked.
So this will get to booked but here.
Exclusive lock is taken by T1 and this lock would be kept till the end of the transaction.
Either committed properly or rollback.
Now transaction two in mid cannot even take shared lock for reading or cannot even take exclusive lock
for writing.
So it cannot even read it.
So you dirty read problem is also solved till this lock is not removed and it will only get removed
once it is properly committed or it is rollback properly.
Okay, but phantom read problem is not resolved.
How?
Now here.
If you see that if you have two rows with ID one and let's say for here you have free here If you have,
let's say, pending some status.
This is my DB table.
This is ID, this is status.
Okay.
So now what is happen is let's say transaction one.
Transaction two at time t one.
Okay.
Let's say you have read ID greater than zero and ID less than five.
So how many rows.
So you have put a shared lock now shared lock by T one.
Okay.
On which row on here.
If we have put this shared lock here by T one shared lock here by T one.
Both the rows okay.
So begin transaction.
So now this lock will be kept till this transaction is not completed either commit or rollback.
Now let's say this is at T1.
And now let's say at time t two another transaction started the begin transaction and take an exclusive
lock.
Or you can say that doing a insert with ID equals to two.
So c one for ID two is not there.
So some other row has inserted a new row two with id new row is inserted two and some other status let's
say free because see there is no shared lock on this right.
Two part.
So any other transaction can go ahead and insert it and complete this transaction let's say properly
committed okay.
Now let's say at time three this transaction T1 runs the same query again read I.
D greater than zero and id less than five.
Will it get the same two rows earlier?
Like it get one.
And for now it will get one for and two because this query is now satisfying this three.
So phantom read problem is there still there in this repetitive read.
The last one is serializable.
What serializable does is it.
There is no dirty read problem here.
There is no non repeatable problem here and there is no phantom read.
It resolved.
All solved.
Solved.
Solved how the serializable.
Same as repeatable log read log strategy.
So it it uses the same strategy during reading it.
Require it take a shared log and release only at the end of the transaction.
Exclusive lock is taken while writing and released only at the end of the transaction.
It does the same thing, but it applies a range lock.
It applies the range lock.
Now here, if you see the phantom read problem, I will tell you the same.
Let's say this.
We will pick the same thing.
The two row one and four status is free.
Some status is pending now in the.
If you are if you are using the serialization uh, isolation level, if transaction one and transaction
two are running transaction two, let's say begin the transaction.
And it is doing this at time one read.
ID greater than zero and ID less than five.
So what it will do?
It will.
So it is doing reading so means it will put a shared log and it will release only at the end of the
transaction.
Correct.
That's what it is.
Does like repetitive read.
But one change is it put a range lock.
Range lock means all the 0 to 1 two, three, four.
So it will put a shared lock here by t one shared lock here at time T two uh not T2T1 transaction t
one put a shared lock on this.
Also it put a range lock.
So this is kind of a range lock.
Range lock means now 1234.
These all are kind of lock.
Now let's say at time two some other transaction has started.
Begin transaction And now wants to take an exclusive lock and insert A with ID equals to two.
Will it be able to insert it?
No, this will not be because at second row also range lock is already present here, which is a shared
lock which no other transaction can insert it in the mid between this one and ID greater than zero and
five.
Whatever the rows are satisfying this condition, a shared lock would be put right and it's a range
lock means anything coming in mid of it.
Also it will get locked.
That's how it is solving the phantom read problem, because now no other transaction would be able to
insert any new data in mid and so that now at time T3, if the same query runs again.
Read id greater than zero and ID less than five.
The same two rows will get returned, so there is no new rows will come because another transaction
won't be able to insert because range lock has been present.
All all this, all this rows which are satisfying this plus any rows which are coming in mid those are
get logged.
You cannot do any insertion in mid.
But this one thing clarifies you that the concurrency of serializable is very less or very low.
The concurrency rises, but the risk of certain problems arises like this.
So during which DB to use and which isolation level to use during transaction, it is very important
decision.
Interviewer.
Might.
This is very interesting topic for an interviewer that you know which isolation level should use.
So generally, depending upon the requirement, either repetitive read or repetitive read, committed
or repetitive committed.
Out of this two only this is one is required because they give like some yes, concurrency is there,
but also problem is solved.
So whenever this question come, ask interviewer that okay, whatever the application we are building
Non-repeatable read is a problem or not.
If non-repeatable read is not a problem, right?
Go for read committed.
If it is a problem, go for repeatable commit, right?
So I hope this is clear to you.
But this uh, if let's say that if you ask me.
Right.
Hey, like where this shared lock exclusive lock actually code is present.
See here in your application you will simply write, read, let's say select query.
You will write select query, write.
Select asterisk from your table.
Where ID equals to one.
You will write only this query.
Now, depending upon the isolation level which your DB is using, there is something called DB Transaction
manager.
Write.
With each DB there is some transaction manager.
So this locking code.
Okay I am using isolation level.
I have to use isolation level read.
So during application you just tell which isolation level to use.
Hey use read committed, then it will during select query, it will make sure that it will put a shared
lock and release it as soon as you read it.
So this taking a lock.
Releasing the lock.
Taking a shared lock.
Releasing the lock is exist into DB transaction manager, which is not like at a at a application layer.
This is not visible to us.
It's abstracted.
Okay, we just simply write insert query update query, but only isolation level is something which
will tell to the DB transaction manager which ultimately talks to DB, but what locking it should use,
when to use, when to release.
This is guided by isolation level, and that's where the.
If you read the definition again, it tells how the changes made by one transaction are visible to another
transaction running in parallel.
I hope this definition makes sense.
Now with that being said, like the transaction management is a spring boot, I am completed and see
you soon with the next topic of the Spring Boot by.