# Default, Static & Private Method in Interface - Java Interface - Part2

Hey guys welcome to Concept in Coding and this is Shreyansh.
So in the first part of the video of the interface we have already covered this right.
So today I will cover this Java eight features and Java nine features.
So today I will cover this.
So this was covered in the first part.
So today I will cover this plus this two.
Functional interface and lambda expression I will cover totally in one video because this is very very
important right.
So I don't want to mix with other topics.
So I'll cover this important topic in a separate video itself.
So today we will see the Java eight features default method, static method and Java nine interface
features, private methods and private static method.
Okay, so let's go ahead to the default method okay.
So now let's understand this.
What is default method now.
So by this time you already know how to create an interface.
And you know one thing that interface can only have.
Abstract method before Java eight.
Before Java eight interface can only have abstract method.
And all the child classes has to provide abstract method implementation.
This is what we have studied till now.
But Java eight has bring this feature of default method.
I will tell you, is this a feature or this is kind of a you can say it's an ah kind of gap filling
or bug fix.
You can say that not a bug fix, but it's mostly a improvement of a long gap which Java has.
I'll tell you how.
So now let's see first with an example, uh, how to define a default method.
So this is what we have known.
We can easily create an interface public interface bird.
It has one abstract method.
So this is you know that it's a by default abstract method.
Even though I haven't written any abstract method here by default, you know that it's an abstract by
default.
Internally it has an abstract method.
So this is an abstract method.
And all the child classes which are implementing this, which are implementing this bird has to implement
this can fly.
So now I have two child classes here.
One is eagle which implement this bird.
So it has to implement the fly method.
Another is Sparrow.
It is also implementing the bird.
It is also has to implement the can fly method.
Now just understand from this perspective.
If in future you got a request that we have to add a new method here, add new method added in the interface
need to change in all of its implementation.
So now let's say earlier it was only can fly and all the classes which implement this interface has
implemented the can fly.
But now request comes and I have to add this method also get minimum fly height of a bird.
So because this is also an abstract if interface can only have an abstract means all the child classes,
all the classes which have implemented this interface has to be changed and implement this method.
So Eagle also has to implement this.
Sparrow also has to implement this even though the code functionality is same, right?
Even though the code functionality is same, they have to implement this one.
So that is one of you can say that disadvantage of an interface, right?
Or you can say that this is one of the gap.
Right.
So you can know that.
Why the default method has been introduced at the first place to resolve this gap.
So now how default method is solving this issue.
So I have a bird I have an abstract method.
Okay I have an abstract method.
So all the classes which implement this bird has implemented the abstract method.
So fly is an abstract method here right.
So Eagle has also implemented the abstract method.
Sparrow has also implemented the abstract method right provided the implementation of the abstract method.
But now a new requirement comes that hey, we need this need to add this new method.
And this new method is common for most of the classes, right?
So now in the Java eight you can add a method and provide its implementation.
Also, you can provide its implementation.
Also.
All you have to put is a default keyword here, right?
With just a default keyword, you can able to implement the method here.
And you see that we don't have to implement a get minimum fly height over here and over here.
Right.
And even with the Eagle the so here now let's say how to use it.
I am creating an eagle object, this class object which implements the bird.
I am creating an eagle object.
Right.
And when I am creating an eagle object with this eagle object itself, I am able to call this method.
So even though we are not adding it here, it's internally been added and it's able to access it, right.
So that's what default is.
You don't have to default method.
You can provide the implementation in the interface itself and you don't have to implement those into
the classes which implement that interface.
That's what default is.
But now you can say that hey, why in Java eight suddenly they get this requirement.
Why not in Java seven and all before that.
Also why in Java eight only they think that okay default method has to be introduced.
I'll tell you why.
So this is my theory.
So in Java eight they have come up with a feature called stream right.
So now here if you see.
Now here if you see.
Our test object dot stream.
So this stream is a Java eight feature right.
So now here if you see that stream is added into which class, this method is added into which class.
it's an added into interface of collection.
Now, since it's an interface or this feature has been stream method has been added into an interface.
See how much implementation are there for this interface?
See how many how many implementation?
If in Java eight they have to add a new method into this interface.
So they have added stream.
If they have added stream and then semicolon, then you know that in how many classes they have to implement
this in how many classes, they have to provide an implementation for this stream.
You know that.
Why now they have thought that okay, how to solve this now.
So I think that's why they have come up with this.
Put a default.
So now they have put the stream as a default so that they now don't have to provide the implementation
is all of those classes.
Okay.
So I would say that default is why they have suddenly introduced in Java eight because stream was introduced
into the collection interface.
And in the collection interface.
There are so many classes which implement this collection interface.
If you are adding a new stream method here, then you have to add touch all the classes, add stream
implementation just to save this.
And to solve this, they have made default so that only this class is touched and provided default implementation
here and everybody can use it.
It's a common functionality.
Okay.
So that's what I understand with it why the default matter was default method was first introduced to
add the functionality in the existing legacy interface, we need to use a default method, for example,
a stream method in collection.
I showed you how.
Okay so basic you understand default method.
Now let's see couple of problems which can come and what all things you can do with default this thing
in an interface.
Now you know that a class can implement many interfaces, right?
A class can implement many interfaces.
So now let's say I have one interface and I have created a default method with name can breathe, a
bird can breathe I have a method can breathe.
And it's a default I have an implementation.
I have created another interface called Living Thing and it also has the same method can breathe.
This is also default.
Now I am creating one class which implements both.
Now you know that what's gonna happen can which default method will get invoked ultimately, when Eagle
object will be called Eagle object equals to new eagle.
So I have created an eagle object.
And object dot can breathe which one it will invoke.
Right.
So this thing will not work out.
So that's why it's an error over here.
So whenever you have a case like this you have implementing have multiple interfaces.
And they have the default method with the same name.
You have to provide an implementation in that case only okay.
So then it's a mandatory to provide the implementation.
You got it.
Now let's see how to extend an interface.
So you know that you have an interface.
And another interface can also extend it.
extended.
So what?
All things can be done if it has default method.
What all this interface can do.
So there are three ways.
So first way let's see the first way.
Simple.
I have an interface living thing and has one default method can breathe.
Simple.
Very simple with just one default method and interface.
Now you know that another interface can extend from the interface parent interface.
So this is the parent now.
And this bird interface extended from the parent interface.
So first way is bird does nothing.
Means it doesn't touch or do anything.
It keep it default method as it is like it doesn't touch anything.
So by default.
When you have another class Eagle, which implements bird.
Right.
So it just.
You can say that all has the capability.
All has this default method.
So now when I created an eagle object Eagle Eagle object equals to new eagle.
I can easily access this method.
Easily access this method.
So one way is the interface.
The child interface do not touch the parent default method.
So it would be just a cascading.
And the ultimate child class will get all the capabilities of it.
It still can access it.
What is the second way?
The second way is so this is the parent interface.
It has one default method.
It has been extended by the child interface.
Now here what it has done is it make it a default.
So it created one.
Sorry.
It created an abstract.
So with the same name, with the same name, it create an abstract method.
It create an abstract method.
So now what ultimately will happen is this method also become abstracted.
Okay.
So now I have created a.
Eagle class which implements the bird.
So now it has to implement this method.
It has to provide the implementation because this is now abstracted.
Even though can breathe is default into the living thing.
But the interface the child interface has made it abstracted.
So any class which is implementing this bird now has to provide an implementation.
So this is the correct.
So now Eagle has to provide the implementation.
Why.
Because the bird has made the same Method as an abstract method, right?
Can breathe.
Even though it is a default into the parent one.
Right?
So this is the second way where the interface has the capability to create a same method as an abstract.
Then all the child classes also has to provide the implementation.
Okay.
What is the third way.
So this is interesting.
So I have a parent interface.
Parent interface has one default method.
Simple.
Now I am creating one child interface.
Now child interface is overriding this.
So means it is also providing the implementation its own implementation.
So can breathe default.
So it is also providing can be default.
It is now overriding it kind of thing.
So this is overriding.
It is doing so it can add its own implementation.
Plus it can also use the implementation of the parent interface also and add certain more functionality.
So I can use this living thing.
The parent interface name dot super dot its method name default method name can breathe.
So with this it will first call.
This.
So means this will get called and whatever.
Now you can add more functionality, add more functionality.
Or if you want to totally add a new functionality, you can totally add a new functionality.
If you don't want to use it, you don't write it.
But if you want to use this code base, also you can use like this the interface name dot super and
the default method name you can access.
So this code will get executed first.
After that you can add more code.
So this is known as overriding.
So these are the three ways, right?
And through which during interface extend you can play with the default method.
Okay.
So I think default method should get clear right.
So do practice once.
So it's very easy but it's a different use cases.
It's better to know all these different use cases right.
So now let's check with another Java eight feature.
So default was one Java eight feature.
Now let's see.
Another is static method.
So with static method also we can provide the implementation of the method in interface through default.
Also you can provide an implementation of a method through static.
Also you can provide an implementation right.
But there are certain constraint constraint like it cannot be overridden by the classes which implement
the interface.
Right now here I am creating a class which implements the bird.
Now it cannot override.
This can breathe.
It's not possible, right?
It can just use this with the interface name because it's a static right.
You know that whenever the method is static, it can be accessed by the class name.
So here in this interface it can be accessed by an interface name.
So now let's say in the class which implementing this interface bird I cannot override this here or
here but I can use it.
So I am just created one method.
And here now see I am using it bird interface name dot method.
You can use it now okay.
So that is one of the constraint that this static method cannot be overridden by classes which implements
the interface.
In this case Eagle cannot override it, Right.
So that's one of the thing.
Another thing is we can access it using interface name itself.
So here, if you see that I am accessing it through bird dot Cambridge name.
Right.
And it is by default public as far as you know till now, whatever we have done everything is public
in till now Java eight everything is public.
So it is by default public.
So it's kind of public static.
Okay.
So you got the static.
So now here if you see that the example which we have seen for stream right.
So you can ask right.
Hey why can't we make it static.
Why we have created it default.
So I told you that static you can't provide an implementation or you can't, it cannot be overridden
by the classes.
So now if you see this stream right.
Many classes which implement this has overridden it.
So now just see that maybe see they have overridden this and they provide their own implementation.
So default methods are possible to do the override.
But static cannot be overridden.
Right.
So it is possible that maybe in some of the class out of 101 of the class, you have to write your own
functionality.
With static.
It is not possible because you cannot override it, but with default it is possible.
Okay, so static method is clear, right?
In Java eight.
Now let's see the Java nine feature which is private method and private static method.
See static method is there in Java eight.
So but by default everything is public.
So it is public static.
Public static is available in Java eight also.
But private static is available in Java nine.
Okay.
So now let's see what it is.
Very very simple.
Okay.
We can provide the implementation of method.
But as a private access modifier in the interface same.
We can also provide an interface here.
Right.
So here now here if you see that I am creating a I am creating an normal interface bird.
Right.
So this is my.
Abstract method.
Right.
And I told you that void can fly internally.
All methods are public in interface.
So it is equivalent to public.
So public will get added internally.
And also all method in interface also by default abstract.
So it is very equivalent to public abstract void can fly.
Just wanted to showcase that they are equal, right?
So whether you write void can fly or public abstract void can fly.
Both are same.
Okay, so now I have created one interface and I have created one abstract method here.
Now here if you see that I have created one default method.
This is Java eight feature right?
I have created one static method.
This is also Java eight feature.
Now I have created one private method which is Java nine feature and private static which is also Java
nine feature.
Right.
So with all this you can provide an implementation.
Right.
So for only abstract you cannot provide an implementation.
But if you see for default I have provided the implementation static.
I have provided the implementation private.
I have provided the implementation and private static provided the implementation, but only few rules.
You have to identify very simple rules, right?
And I think if you have already check out my previous I think methods where I have covered the private
modifiers, you will know very basic rules.
Now let's check it rule first.
So one thing is you already know that we can provide the implementation of the private and private static,
right?
We can provide it.
But with the as a private modifier.
Now you know one thing that if it is private, means you cannot access this method outside of this interface,
up outside of this interface, you cannot access it means who can access it, then abstract method cannot
access it, then who can access it?
Only default or static can access it, right?
So these are the only methods which can access it which can have implementation.
So private can private method can only be used inside an interface.
Okay.
Why why we need private method.
So one thing is it brings more readability of the code.
For example this is for example if multiple default methods share some code then this can help right?
So now let's say when one more problems comes in Java that you can have default method.
Now let's say you have 2 or 5 default methods.
Let's say you have five default methods.
And they have I think 80% similar code base similar code base.
Right.
So what you will do.
So it would be lot of code duplication.
So now in that case private method can have.
So this 80% code you can take out in a private method now.
Right.
And they they can just simply call this and get this 80% done.
And they can just simply now write their own 20%.
Right.
So now we can do code reusability.
Code readability will increase.
So this is one of the reason why private methods are introduced after because default it becomes a necessity.
Okay.
What else private can be defined as a static non-static.
Yeah it can be defined right.
So once with private if you make it static it become private static right.
Otherwise if you don't make it static it become a normal normal.
So it just you can say that it would be a private private static.
So these are the two flavors right.
You can understand this line with there are two flavors normal private or private static.
And I, I think we have already done this in a method.
You know that from static method you can call only static data.
You can only call static members, either variable or method.
Only static.
Right.
So if you have not seen the previous classes of methods, just check out where we have discussed that.
Why static method can only access static members, right?
Tell me why in the comment and you can know that non-static method.
Non-static method can access both static one also and non static members also both.
So similar rule here also.
Now here if you see that default it is non-static right.
So it can access static method.
It can access here my static public method.
It can access private method and it can even access private static method.
Right?
Second I have static.
So it is a static method.
So you know that static method can only access static members.
So see it can only call private static method this one only private static.
And here you can, uh, know that like you have a private and this one.
So this is the only difference I want to tell from static method we call only private static interface
method.
So this line I have already explained you why this static method.
Only static members can be called non-static method.
Both can be called.
So default is a non-static.
So you can call private also private static also normal static also.
And from static you can only call private static and y y only from static.
We can call a static member.
Please tell me in the comment because I have already explained this in our method video, right?
So this one is I have explained private interface method.
Private interface method cannot be abstract means we have to provide the definition.
So if you you can't create this as a private right.
So all abstract method should be public only because it's a very obvious because since we are making
it abstract, somebody has to provide the implementation right in that class.
If you make it private, private means it cannot be accessed apart from this interface.
So it's a contradict.
So that's why any abstract method, you can't make it private and it can be used inside of a particular
interface only.
It can be used inside a private method.
Can only be used inside this interface.
No.
Apart from this interface.
No other class also which implementing this interface?
No.
Within this interface only.
I hope this.
Is clear.
Default method.
Static.
Private and private.
Static.
And in the interface now only one thing is left functional interface and lambda abstraction, which
is very very important.
And we'll cover separately in one video.
Okay guys thank you.
And do practice with your hand and just don't watch it.
Just do practice also.
Then only you will get doubts.
Then only we can clear ask question.
Otherwise certain doubts or problems will get unresolved.
Okay guys.
See you.
Bye.
