# Java8 CompletableFuture | Future & Callable | Multithreading in Java

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
In the previous session we have seen Threadpool thread pool executor.
Right.
Very important topic.
Today I am going to cover another very important topic.
And you can see that it's a follow up of thread pool executor.
So future callable and completable future.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So this is the example which I have written here exactly the same which we have seen in the previous
video.
So I have created a thread pool executor.
Right.
And I am submitting a task to the thread pool executor.
Right.
So we know that it will create a new thread and the the main thread or the caller will continue processing
it.
Very simple.
So thread pool executor from its pool of threads will assign one thread, will create one thread.
are not create thread is already created in the pool.
Right.
So it will use one thread and start performing this task.
Right.
So this is our base understanding.
Now one question should comes to your mind that hey Shreyansh, what if caller wants to know the status
of the thread, whether it's completed or it failed or some any output has come.
So here the caller is let's say the main thread.
So this is started and it created a new task which is doing by thread one.
Let's say this is the submitted a new task.
This is an async task which is performing by thread one.
So main thread will continue processing it right?
It will not wait for this thread to complete.
But now let's say that at future if this main thread or you can say that the caller want to know the
status of this task, whether it's completed or it is failed, or is there any exception or is there
it has generated some output.
Then what is the output?
How do we how it will get to know currently here if you see that we are not holding any references.
So there is no way this main thread would be able to know this status, right?
So that's where the future comes into the picture.
So here if you see the submit, what is the return type of the submit is future.
Don't worry about this question mark and all.
I will cover everything.
But whenever we call submit what is the return type future.
So we can create a future object and hold the reference there.
And using that future object we can know the status.
Okay, so now let's now we know that.
What is what?
Why the future is needed.
What actually we wanted.
We wanted to know the status of the thread which is running in async mode by some other thread.
So what does future will do?
So future is an interface which represents the result of the async task.
It allows you to check if computation is completed, get the result, or take care of any exception
if any.
Right.
So now again this is a main thread.
It will create a new thread here performing some task.
But now here I will have future object.
So main has this future object.
Now it is start working it.
This main has also start working concurrently.
But in future it can use this future object.
And there are several methods I Methods.
I will explain you this all this method.
Using this method, it can get to know whether this task which is performing by this another thread
one is it completed or finished or failed or any output comes.
What is that output?
Okay, so that is the purpose of future.
Let's see this example.
So I have created a thread pool executor.
Similar no change.
Now I am submitting a task to a pool.
Again this is how we have done seen already.
Write a new thread would be created which would be not new thread would be created.
It will pick from this pool executor.
So the pool has one thread in the pool, so it will use that thread and start executing it right.
So let's say t one is working on it.
But here this is the difference.
Now I am storing the future object, right?
Again, don't worry about this wild card.
Right.
I will tell you why.
What?
All things we can put here.
But as of now, what?
You have to be clear that whenever we submit a task to a thread pool executor, it returns this future
object reference.
Right?
So we can store it.
Now your main thread later on you.
You can use this future object to know this thread status, whether it is done or not, whether it is
there any exception or not.
What is the output?
Okay.
Now there are so here.
If you see that inside this future right there are five methods one, two, three, four, five.
So very very simple methods are available inside this future object.
What all things we can know about this thread.
So one thing is cancel if main want to cancel the execution of this thread so it can call obj dot cancel
true.
So what it's doing is on this future object.
It has set this put interrupting this execution of this thread.
Right.
So it attempts to cancel the execution of the task.
Async task.
So it can return false.
The output of this method can return false if the task cannot be canceled.
And what is one of the reason task cannot be canceled?
What if task is already completed?
So if task is already completed, then it will return false means it is not able to cancel it.
But if task is in progress or it is waiting and you have called this method, it might get interrupted
and it get canceled.
And once this task get canceled, it might return true.
Okay.
So there is another method called is cancel.
So this will return true or false if this task has been canceled or not.
Right.
So earlier command is to give the command that.
Yes.
Hey.
Cancel it.
This one is just to check whether the particular task is canceled or not.
Okay.
Returns true if the task was canceled before it get completed.
Normally.
Third method is is done.
So is done.
Is returns true if this task completed, completion may be because of anything normal completion.
Right?
Exception comes or it is canceled.
The task is done whether its task is completed through normally or through any exception.
Or is somebody interrupted it or somebody cancel it.
This task is done.
So that's it.
Return true in all these scenarios.
Okay, if the task is in progress, then only it will return false.
Then there is one method called get.
So what would happen is that inside this main method if you are calling get here object dot get.
Now what would happen is now this main thread will block and it will wait for this task to get completed
fully.
So whenever you are using Get method so the caller will wait for the completion of the task.
Which task?
Async task for the completion of the async task.
After the task completed, it retrieves the result if available, right?
So we will see an example I will also show you but in whenever you are using Get means you are blocking
the caller.
Now it will wait for that particular task to get fully completed, and once it is completed, then only
it will try to retrieve the result.
Okay, if there is any result or not, right.
And then it will further process.
So there is another variant called get and time.
Let's say you want, but here in the get method you are waiting indefinitely.
Let's say that async task or by a running by a particular thread is running for, let's say for 20 minutes.
Then you are blocking the main thread for 20 minutes, right?
But that's not what you wanted, right?
You want certain control so you can use this get.
Hey I maximum I can wait is three seconds.
So timeout is three unit I can give is let's say second.
So after three seconds.
So till whenever you are using wait get the caller will wait only for three seconds for that particular
thread to complete.
If in this timeout period task is not completed, it will throw timeout exception.
Then it's upon us whether we have to wait further or we have to log or we can proceed further.
Right.
So let's take a simple example.
So here I have created a thread pool executor.
Right.
Uh, and in the pool I am submitting one task.
So this is your thread one and this is your main thread.
So this is your main thread.
This is your T1 thread.
Let's say right from this pool.
It will create this T1 thread.
Now when I'm submitting it I have also stored the reference of it.
Don't worry about this question mark this wild card, I will tell you why we have to use, but just
see that whenever we are submitting a task to a thread pool executor, it returns the submit returns
this future object.
Now this future object.
Right?
And in this task I am waiting.
I am sleeping the thread seven seconds.
So we can say that this thread will take seven seconds to complete.
Let's say.
Right.
Seven seconds to complete.
It will not just complete as soon as possible.
Okay, now we have the future object.
Okay, so it will created the new thread and the main thread continues.
So this is main thread goes here.
So now main thread is checking on this future object.
Future object dot is done.
So future object is the reference of this task right.
So now it is checking.
Hey this task is completed.
Is it completed?
No, it takes seven seconds.
Right?
So currently this thread might be sleeping.
Right.
So it is is done.
No, it is not done yet.
So it will return.
No.
Here then main thread will come over here.
Main thread will check future object dot get.
Now I am doing get for I am waiting it only for two seconds.
Right?
I am not waiting indefinitely.
I am waiting only for two seconds.
So two seconds I am waiting so in dozen two seconds will this task get completed?
No, it takes some time.
So what it will throw is it will throw timeout exception so I can catch it.
I can print it.
So it will print this timeout exception happen.
So it will print this okay.
Now main will come here.
Now I am doing dot get.
Now dot get means this caller will wait for this task to get completed indefinitely till it is not completed.
So future object is this one.
This is the task associated with it.
So it will wait continuously.
Wait till it is not completed.
So it will wait six, seven, five, six, seven whatever it is required to this task to complete it.
And once it is completed, right again main is checking.
Now is done.
Future object is done.
Yes it will print.
Yes it is done right.
So here, if you see that this is a waiting period, so main will continuously.
So main will only go to the next point after this task is completed now.
So otherwise at this point itself it will wait.
It will not go to the next.
Only after this task is completed, then only it will goes to the next.
And when you are checking, is it done?
Yes, it will done.
Now the main will come here.
Is it cancelled?
No, it is not cancelled.
We haven't cancelled it.
It is completed naturally.
Right.
So this will print like this.
And one more thing will print here is that, uh.
When we do get right.
So this task will get completed.
So this line will also get printed before this one.
So this is the task which thread will execute.
Right.
Because before reaching here it is waiting for thread to complete.
So this thread will print this.
Now let's understand one thing.
So till now I think future might be clear to you okay this is what actually future does.
So now how exactly it works.
So now let's say that.
So now here we have Of pool executor.
Right?
We call submit right this.
Submit what it is doing.
It is creating a new future task.
And whatever the runnable tasks which we are giving.
Right, it will be putting inside this right.
So this is the runnable task right?
For us.
This is this is what we are using lambda expression to put a runnable task.
Right.
We already know the runnable.
So we are giving this runnable.
So what internally when we do submit what it does is it create a new future task.
New future task is so.
Future is an interface.
So this is an interface.
Future task is the child class of it.
So if you see this future class, if you go and check this future class, this is implements runnable
future.
And ultimately this runnable future is extended from this future.
So ultimately it's a child of future only that whenever in the thread pool executor we are submitting
this runnable task, right?
Actually this is not we are wrapping this runnable task into future tasks.
So future task has two parts.
This runnable.
Task runnable task is which one?
This one.
Whatever we are sending here.
Right.
Plus also it has state multiple state I showed you.
Right 01234 multiple states is possible for this task right.
So this is we send to the thread pool executor this future task.
So thread pool executor based upon the thread state, it will keep on updating this state.
Okay, so future is clear right?
What is the purpose of the future?
Right.
Now you might be asking that hey okay, future is clear, but what is this cost?
And Mark and.
All right.
What is this?
So you will get your answer if you understand this callable now.
So there are three flavors of the submit.
What are the three flavors.
One is.
Submit.
Runnable.
Right.
So one is submit.
Runnable.
Another is.
Submit.
Made runnable.
Comma t.
And the third one is submit callable.
Submit callable.
So we have three flavors of submit till now what we are using it till now we were using this this flavor.
So whenever I am you are doing thread pool executor dot submit.
Right.
And inside that we are using lambda expression to submit anything like say to submit anything it.
Yeah right.
System.out.println.
Do something.
So by default this submit we are using it.
This runnable Both, right?
Why?
Why you are saying that?
Hey, you can ask me, right?
Hey, why runnable is used?
Why not callable?
That is also one parameter here.
Here.
How?
We are saying that this is runnable.
Why this cannot be callable.
So that's one difference is that both runnable and callable are same.
Only difference is that runnable do not return anything.
Callable returns a certain value.
So both purpose is the same.
What is the purpose of both runnable and callable.
They represent the tasks which need to be executed just like runnable also does.
Right.
But difference is runnable.
Do not have any return type.
Callable has the capability to return the value.
Okay, this is the thread pool executor.
Now I am doing submit.
Now if I am doing like this.
System dot out dot println something.
So what it will use.
It will call runnable.
Why?
Because here if you see that it is not returning anything.
It's just doing some processing.
But if I do like this right.
Let's say future object one.
Future object two.
Submit.
Do something.
And now I am return ING.
Let's say 45.
I'm returning some value.
Now what value?
Integer.
So now what it will do.
Callable.
So that's the only difference.
Callable has the capability to return value.
Runnable does not have any return type.
See this part.
Now use case one.
I have created a thread pool executor.
I am doing thread pool executor dot submit.
I am creating a runnable.
Right.
I am using a lambda expression and I'm submitting one task.
Task one with runnable not returning anything.
So means it will call which method.
It will call this runnable.
Okay.
Understood.
What is runnable?
But how?
What is this question mark here?
Okay, now I'll tell you why we for runnable.
We have to catch like this.
So here in runnable, there is no return type.
But we need the future object, correct?
We need the future object so that at least we know what is the status of this task, whether it's completed,
or is there any exception or if I have to cancel it.
Right.
So definitely I need the future object.
But only thing is there is no there is no result or there is no output.
Right?
So that's why what it does is internally it put a void like it doesn't know.
Void means nothing.
Void means nothing, right.
So it doesn't know.
So question mark wild card means I don't know what it is.
If you have seen the video wild card one.
What does wild card mean?
It can be anything.
Right.
So generally how you catch this one.
So I take this object when I do dot get.
So what does Dot get will do on this future object?
It will wait till this task will not complete.
After that it will try to retrieve the result.
So when it try to retrieve the result, this part.
This is the result, right?
Whether it could be a string or integer or so question mark means it can be anything.
I do not know.
So when it can be any.
When it can be anything, you can only catch it into object because object class is the parent of everything,
right?
So object class is parent of everything.
Now it doesn't matter whether it's a string or integer or some other object.
Doesn't matter.
It would be able to take it.
Now if you check it is object equals to equals to null, it will return true because this is a runnable.
And when in the runnable what output value it is setting is null.
Right.
So we when we wrap into future tasks, write future tasks.
So when we have runnable write, we have a state and also we have output.
What is the result?
It comes out of this runnable task.
So we have hard coding it to null here.
Because we know that runnable do not return any value.
So there is it would always be null.
So now when you got this future object with this future object you are doing get.
So now first it will wait this runnable task to get completed.
When this runnable task get completed, it will return the output also.
So this output if you check it will always be null.
Okay so this is the use case one which till now we are doing it.
Now this is the use case two.
Here we are calling a submit.
So here let's say that the submit.
But this one runnable.
And the result I don't want null.
Always an output.
So now let me explain you that part.
So now let's say let me create my own runnable not using lambda so it will clear more.
So I'm creating my own runnable class let's say implements runnable.
So it has to implement the run method.
So implement the run method.
Okay.
So here it has to do some work.
So thread will do some work here.
Now if I do submit I will clear new runnable.
New runnable.
Mineable class.
Right.
And now I want to use this second one.
Not this first one where it always return null.
Now I want to use this one.
So what is the use case we can come up with.
So now let's say that I have one common object let's say list of integer.
So let's say this is the output.
Currently it is empty.
Currently this is empty.
Total empty.
If I can pass this to the constructor of this my runnable so means it is also have a list of integer.
It has a list of integer list and into the constructor.
I will accept this list.
Whatever it is coming, I will update.
This.
Right.
So now what I'm trying to do is that whatever the common object.
So I am trying to use a common object functionality that I created one object here and pass it to the
runnable also.
So now runnable has the same reference of that object.
Now whenever any thread will run this, start running this, it can update this list list dot.
Let's say add 100 or let's say I am adding 300 here.
So now it updated this list.
And ultimately what get updated is this output because they have the same reference right.
So I am calling this and the output result where I want that is here.
This is the output.
Okay.
And the future would be my list of integer.
This is the future object.
Okay, so this would be the future object.
So now which one it is using this runnable task and t result.
This is a generic type.
So t we have set what list of integer.
This is what we have said right.
So the same it will return.
Give us the output.
Also whatever we have provided here the same it would be return back to us.
So now what happen is whatever the object we have passed here, whatever the object we have passed here,
it will go inside this right and it will set it.
Here, here if you see, that goes inside.
So after this run got completed, after this run got completed.
So we have created this my runnable.
Right after this is completed, what it will return, it will return the result.
So whatever you are passing right it will return the same thing.
If you see then you can ask that hey, what is the point?
This is the object.
And here I am passing and it is returning the same, right?
What's the point?
So now when it return this if you print this.
So first we have to wait for this task to complete.
So future object dot get now this get throws exception.
So we have to put in try catch block.
Okay.
So now what did happen is this get will wait right.
It will wait for this task to get completed now.
Main thread will wait for this task to get completed.
After this, if I print System.out.println.
This output whether I have one way.
So this is one way.
First way, if you have access to this common you can do output dot get zero.
Second way is that you don't have access to this output now, but you want like what it has written.
So this get also returns it right.
So it will list off.
Integer.
It will return this result also.
So System.out.println.
Result dot get zero.
So both will print 300.
300 okay so you got it right.
What we are doing is we are just doing some work around.
Even though this runnable doesn't return anything, we are just playing with the common objects that
okay, this is the common object we pass to the runnable and it will update it.
And when the thread finishes, this common object will get updated.
And I can use this sometime it possible that you don't have common object.
Then what we'll do is thread executor says that hey you pass me that object.
Also whenever I will complete this task runnable task, I will throw this object so you can catch it
and do whatever you want.
Okay, so this is the second scenario where the second submit is used.
Runnable comma t object.
Now this is the third one which is a simple of the.
You can say that if you have a scenario use case two.
It is sort of like a workaround.
Right.
But this is more cleaner way.
Callable.
So now here, if you see that I don't want to do all this thing, I can do that a pool executor dot
submit.
Right.
Either I can say that.
Do some task like I can create here.
List of integer output equals to new array list output dot.
Add 300 and return this list itself.
Right.
So now this will be considered as callable because here we are returning right.
So here I have created the list and I can return it, and in the future I can simply catch it.
List of integer.
This is the your future object.
Right now.
This future object you can do get.
And when you do get, you have to put it into try catch block.
Let's say I'm doing try catch block.
Now this get will return you what?
List of integer.
So result.
With this get will come and now you will do System.out.println.
Let's say result dot get zero index.
What is there.
So here if you see this is more cleaner way I can achieve the same thing.
But it's a more cleaner way.
Okay.
So this is the third use case.
So this is mostly you can say that future and callable.
Now this is very important is Completable future.
This is introduced in Java eight.
This is also help in async programming right.
Like how our future and callable is doing right.
It is also helping async programming.
So we can consider this an advanced version of future.
It provides additional capability like chaining.
So you can say that it's just a big brother of future.
Whatever future can do, it can do because future is an interface and its child is completable future.
So what what all capability future has it has those.
Plus it has additional capabilities like chaining, I will tell you.
So let's go to the completablefuture.
So here if you see that it's implements future only.
Okay.
So now you know that okay.
It is also the same thing or how what future does.
So how it is different how to use it.
Now let's see that this is a little slightly syntax is different.
So there are five important uh five important methods in completablefuture.
The first is supply async.
Supply async.
So this is the method signature.
So this is the signature.
So here we call supply async.
This is a static.
So that's why it is called with Completablefuture dot supply a sink and there is a supplier.
So this supply a sink method is used to initiate an async operation.
Right.
What it will do is it internally create one thread and whatever the task.
So this is your task.
So whatever the task you will provide here, that task will be executed by the new thread.
Right.
So till now what we have done is we are using thread pool executor thread pool thread pool executor
is using dot submit.
So submit is creating a new task or it submit is creating a new thread.
Right.
And uh if you are using pool executor right.
It is creating a new thread from this pool and perform the task which we give.
So similarly in Completablefuture we have supply a sink.
So what internally it will do is if you don't pass the executor, then it will use the default default
pool executor which is fork join pool.
This is a fork join pool.
If you don't supply.
If you don't provide any executor it will use fork join pool.
It will take the thread out of it right.
And perform this operation in a separate thread.
Right.
And if you want a specific thread pool executor you want to use, you can pass that thread pool executor
so it will not use fork join.
So whatever the thread pool you have provided it will use that to take out the thread.
So but the supply assing purpose is to initiate an async operation like submit in thread pool executor
The supplier.
This is executed asynchronously in a separate thread.
If you want more control on thread, we can pass executor in the method.
Like if you want more control, we can pass executor in a thread.
So all let's say in the executor you have given five threads for threads.
Minimum pool.
Maximum pool.
So only that many threads will be created.
But if you if you are using this method, you are not providing any executor internally.
It will use fork join pool.
Right.
So now you don't have any control over what is the minimum threads.
Maximum threads right.
So now this is a shared pool right.
And it will dynamically adjust its pool size based upon the processor.
But you don't have any control.
So it will pick a new thread from this pool and perform the task.
So the first method is supply a or sing, which purpose is to initiate the async operation?
Let's see this example.
I have created a thread pool executor like how we are doing it before till now.
Now I am not using thread pool executor dot submit.
Now I am using Completablefuture to initiate an async compression Completablefuture dot supply async
right?
So now in the supply async, what I'm passing is let's see that supplier async.
What what it takes.
So supply async takes a supplier.
So it takes a supplier.
Supplier is nothing but a method which will perform something like simple run method.
Right.
In a runnable like in runnable we have one run method.
Consider this as a simple like this will get executed.
So this task will get executed and it will return one output.
That's what it is doing.
So it's a functional interface which do not accept anything.
So it doesn't accept anything.
And it is performing some task and returning a string.
Right.
It's returning the string.
And also I am passing the pool executor.
So I am using this method.
So there are supply passing with only supplier I am using this supplier comma executor.
So I have passed my executor here because I want full control.
How many pool size I want right.
So this is the supplier which will return the string and Completablefuture is the return type.
So supplier whatever return type would be the completablefuture would be of that only.
So completablefuture, I am returning a string, right?
So completablefuture of string.
Okay, now I can do since Completablefuture is also a child of future, so get method is there.
So if I do get now, it will wait to get this task completed and once the task completed it will try
to fetch the result and fetch the result is what this is the string.
So it will print task completed.
So first method is clear supply async which is used to initiate an async compression.
Second then apply and then apply async.
So there are two methods uh then apply and then apply async.
So there are two methods which are available.
What is the difference.
So what it does is it apply a function to the result of the previous async computation.
I told you, right?
Completablefuture is just an advanced version of future and one of the capabilities which it provides
chaining, right?
So this is one thing.
This is one way of doing it.
Apply a function to the result of the previous async computation.
Return a new compatible future object.
Understand it very very clearly right.
So now let's say this is the main thread.
Main thread is running.
Now main thread calls this Completablefuture.
So it does a supply async.
Then I provided the task which need to be run.
Let's say concept end and then apply is just a function which need to be executed after the supply async
and it would work on top of the output which supply async done returns.
So the first supply Asynch returns the concept and string.
Right?
So it accepts this string and works on top of it and return something.
It could return integer also.
But what I've done is I have added a concept and concept and and added coding and it returns.
So it is again a string.
So ultimately this is completablefuture of string because supply also returns completablefuture only.
So means you can add more.
You can add more than apply.
You can add more supply a thing because this is we are all, all are returning completablefuture it
helps you to do chaining.
Okay, so now you should have asked me one question like if this thing should comes to your mind hey
change.
Okay, main thread worked right?
So main thread initiated this supply async.
So it will create new thread thread one.
And this task has to be doing after the supplier sync and main will continue processing it task.
So which thread will process this then apply.
Is the new thread will be created?
Which thread will create this thread only it will create work on it.
Okay.
So then apply.
It is a synchronous execution.
Synchronous execution means it uses the same thread which completed the previous async task.
So whatever the thread is created here, supplier saying once it completes the supply async, then it
only comes and complete this synchronously.
First complete this and then complete.
Then apply.
But if you say that, hey, I don't want the same thread to use to complete the same itself.
I don't want this thread thread one to continue waiting.
I want this thread to be released after the async is completed.
I don't want this thread to be hold and continue work on this task also.
Then you can use apply async.
When you use apply async it will use a new.
It will create a new thread.
Let's see this by an example.
What would happen is a new thread will be created out of this thread pool executor.
I am keep this thread waited for five seconds.
Let's say some work is done and then it return this string.
Completablefuture write either.
One way is that I can just do a chaining or either in the next line?
Also, we can do like, uh, I will tell you both the way.
Either I can do completablefuture dot, then apply.
Then apply.
So let's also put the.
Thread name.
Thread name of supply.
Async.
Thread dot.
Current.
Thread dot get name.
So what is the thread which is executing this supplier thing?
Okay, so after this supply async is done I want you to then apply on this object whatever the supply
async given.
I can do also like this itself, but it would be better clear than this.
So it will accept a function Which accept one parameter.
So which parameter input parameter it accept this string only which suppliers provided.
So string.
Let's say val and it returns also right.
So let's say it returns if it is a single line I don't have to write return.
Uh but yeah we want to print the thread name.
So I need multiple line.
So let's use this this braces and then put thread name which is doing then apply method.
Okay.
And let's say it is doing return.
It is putting.
And that's all right.
And again output is compatible future only.
This is the output, and when it returns the output, what returns a string only right?
So it is returning the string after this.
Now if I run this.
If I run this what it will print.
So thread name of supply async pool one.
Thread one.
So the thread which is doing is pool one.
Thread one five second completed it returned the concept.
Right.
And after that this will get invoked.
Which one is the thread which is doing it again the same thread pool one thread one.
The same thread is following this stages, right?
You don't need to have like a separate.
You can just do like a chaining here.
Uh like this.
Right.
Like you can do like this also.
It's a chaining.
Right.
So that's what why it is called then applies synchronous.
If I use then apply a sync.
Then the thread it will use is different.
It will not use the same thread which supply async uses it.
Let's run it.
So for supply async it uses thread one waiting for five seconds.
After that it calls this then apply method but uses some other thread.
Now you can say what thread it is.
Use Forkjoin pool.
I told you, right?
If you are not providing the executor, it will use.
If you are not providing the executor, it will use by default.
Which which pull the fork join pool it will use internally.
It will use fork join pool so it from the fork join pool it pick the thread.
But if I want to have full control over the pool executor, I will pass my executor.
Hey, use this executor.
Okay, now it is possible that the same thread will be done because after this thread finish it will
goes back to the same pool.
And it is possible that because this is our executor, right?
It might pick the same thread, but at least you got that different thread generally picks that task.
So supply async is done by thread one.
Okay it picked the thread.
So you got the difference.
Uh then apply and then apply async.
Now the third is Then compose, then compose, and then compose async.
So the major differences that I told you when you have then apply async multiple then apply async.
There is no guarantee of ordering.
If you want an ordering between dependent async operation.
So you have multiple async tasks.
Async task.
One.
Async task two.
Async task three.
And there is dependent that after task one, task two should be started.
After two, three should be started.
If you need a ordering then use then compose right.
So it work is to chain together dependent async operations.
Means when next async operation depend on the result of the previous async operation, we can tied them
together by with by, then compose.
So this we can use to bring some ordering.
Okay, so now let's see that.
Then compose how we will do it with then compose.
So this is the supply async right.
If I used uh then compose here.
Now again it has the same two thing.
Then compose and then compose async you know right.
If I use then compose what would happen.
The same thread which completed the supply async.
The same thread will work on this in.
Then compose async a new thread will be created, but now ordering I don't have to worry about this
method will take care of doing ordering.
If I am putting multiple then compose right, then compose us in multiple, then compose async.
Then also ordering would be maintain it internally maintains a certain kind of ordering.
So now this, then compose.
Let's say I'm using normal then compose.
It is using this function.
Function of what?
This is the wild wild card right.
Super T so means whatever the t and above.
And this one is extends completion completion stage and below.
So this is the functional interface is used.
And it has done certain restriction to us.
What restriction.
What input.
What it can accept.
It can accept this T right.
So this t is like whatever this returns Completablefuture returns.
So here if you for simplicity, if you understand this, Completablefuture object.
Completablefuture object, then.
Come.
Then compose.
So this future object.
If you see that.
What is this t?
This t is this string.
So now here, if you see this method, this t is this string.
So wildcard super T string.
And above you can use it right.
So my parameter would be string or above.
So let's say I'm using string only.
So string value.
So what.
What would come is hello.
Now what is the again.
Second part is r part which is the return type.
What.
Actually the return type it will does is.
Extends wildcard extends Completable stage.
So means Completable stage and below.
Anything.
Anything which is below this completable stage.
So completion stage.
Below.
So generally these are all the Completable future is just below this one.
So we can use that one.
So that's where it past that.
So it returns.
What it returns.
It returns the Completable future.
Another Completable future.
It returns.
So we can do like anything we can pass or we can do another supplier thing because that also returns
the completable future.
Right?
So that we can do we can do supply passing on this one.
So whatever the hello we have.
So let's say I am working that well plus world.
Right.
And I want my executor to use it.
So this one pool executor then compose.
Okay.
So pool executor.
It will be helpful when you do only a sync.
So in sync only executor is there for if a sync is not there, you do not need executor right.
Because the same thread, the same thread which has performed this async task will be used.
Okay.
So only with async this pool executor is required.
If you are using compose then it is not required.
So you got it.
What?
We are doing it here.
So first I am creating a supplier sync.
It has created one async task.
Now on top of it I want to do dependent async operation.
So this will be started only after this.
So I am doing then compose so it will accept one parameter and return one thing and what it accept whatever
like a string and above.
So this is a string and above and what it returns completion stage and below.
So this completion stage and below you might already know this.
We have already covered this.
How to read this question mark extends completion stage and below.
And we know that completion future is the child of completion stage.
So we can it has to return this.
So we can return this.
So we can create one supplier thing because it will generate the one completable future for us.
And ultimately then compose also returns completable future so we can accept it and this object so it
will return ultimately this string itself.
Right.
You So what?
Completable.
Stage you.
So what?
It is returning a string?
Right now.
No matter.
So either you can write like this, or you can do like in a continuation.
Like dot.
Like this.
You can also do.
Now no matter how many you can do like this.
Even like this async.
Even if you have this like an async, let's say even you have now multiple this part multiple, then
async ordering is maintained.
First this will get completed, then this will get completed and then this will get completed.
Now ordering is maintained right.
Because internally if you go inside this there is something which it uses.
So here it maintains certain kind of a stack of dependent actions, no matter if you are using async.
So it maintains some dependent actions and only after that it will get run.
Okay.
So now if you want to print output, if you print it hello world all.
So now this will always guarantee that it will always print.
Hello world all hello world all.
There is no way it will come like hello all world.
So is it clear?
Then compose.
Then there is something called.
Then accept and then accept async the same thing.
Now I will.
So now you already know.
Then accept and then accept async async means.
New thread will be created and if async is not there means same thread will be used.
So generally it's an end stage in the chain of async operation.
So here if you see the example here I have created a supply async here.
As usual Completablefuture supply async.
So this is async operation.
I am passing my pool executor, then I am doing then accept.
So if you see the then accept right.
So here.
If I do.
Then accept.
Okay so now this then accept.
It.
It's functional interfaces which accept input parameter but doesn't return anything.
So generally that's why it is considered that as a end part of the chaining.
So it accept one thing.
So it accept is after a supply async right.
So it return.
So let me use that in a separate.
So it would be more understanding that okay.
So on this future object I am calling the next step.
So it return what it has string.
So it will accept this parameter.
Do some task.
Let's say System.out.println.
Printing the value.
Well that's all.
But it is not returning anything so it returns void.
Actually.
Uh Completablefuture object let's say second.
Right.
But it is returning not string.
It's returning void.
Now if you try to let's say that hey I can chain it right.
I can again chain it more.
Let's say I want to apply then uh apply now in then apply.
You have to use T and above the input parameter.
So you have send void.
Now what you will use right.
So generally because this is what you have to use void and above.
So you have to pass void value something that doesn't make sense right.
So now it has said that hey I haven't returned any value on which you can work upon right.
I haven't written anything which you can work upon.
So generally that's why we call say that then except is generally used at the end of the chain.
Okay.
So you got it.
It will just print it and it will not return anything.
Async is you know that the same difference.
I told you that thread only new thread it will create.
The last one is you are then combined actually.
Then combine and then combine async the same thing.
Synchronous, a new thread will be created.
New thread will be created for this and the same thread above which has been used.
The same thread will go and perform this task.
So I will just explain then combine.
Otherwise there is a difference between the thread, so it is used to combine the result of the two
comparable future.
So now let's say this is one comparable future.
I am creating comparable future dot supply async right?
I am passing one task right.
So here you can say that uh, which doesn't accept anything but it start working on this part returning
ten.
And then I created another Completablefuture supply async which doesn't accept anything.
Right.
And perform what it is returning.
Kay.
So there are two completable Completablefuture tasks, so it will create thread one.
It will create thread two.
Both are.
Both will perform and this supply async will return Completablefuture integer.
This will return Completablefuture of string.
Now I want to combine the result so you can do it using.
Then combine.
So let's say I want to combine.
Let's say task one async task one dot.
Then you can do anyway either around.
So I'm using async task one.
This is also a completablefuture right.
So then combine combine it with what task two.
So in now in the parameter I am passing the task two with what Completablefuture you want to merge the
result.
And here we have to pass the.
So this is a functional interface.
So here if we you see.
Then combine.
So in then combine the completion stage.
So I have passed it so we can, uh, this is the complete table.
Uh completable future.
Right.
This we have passed now here.
What?
By function.
So by function is t you are.
Parameter one, parameter two t you and return is the output.
Right.
And that R is ultimately the completable future.
This it will return.
So t you.
So this is your t this is you.
And this is R right.
So in the by function t you is coming as an input parameter.
So t is your this one.
Async task one.
What is it.
Return integer async task two What it is.
Return a string.
So this is you.
And based upon that, I just did concatenate it ten k and return it.
So return is again a string.
This is again a string.
Right.
So ultimately completablefuture of string comes.
So if you do this complete combined combined future object dot, get what you will get ten k which is
a string.
And if you print that string ten k would come.
Okay so I so see like if you don't practice it this will gonna confuse it too much.
I try to be this is very hard topic to explain, but I try to be in depth as much as possible.
Please please please do practice it.
Make your own notes.
Then only you would get clear what's happening Right.
So this mostly are chaining right.
Completablefuture is mostly helps in chaining right.
Otherwise I will tell you that in yes, we do use Completablefuture in almost all Mnx now using it.
But this chaining is hardly you will find it to be used maximum.
We use supply async.
After supply async we do just get and wait for the result right?
Very rarely you will see that we will use, then apply, then combine, then compose.
Right.
But still it's very important from interview perspective.
But you have to practice, think about use cases, try to implement it.
If you have any question let me know.
We will discuss further, but practice with your hand like otherwise it would be a lot of confusion
would be there.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
