Let's move to the third pillar of inheritance.
The very, very important one inheritance.
So now inheritance, the key.
Our parent and we are the inherited from our parent child.
So my parent has let's say capability one.
So child inherit and child has capability.
Let's say something new to.
But since it's a child or it's inherited it also possess this capability.
Also parents can be benefit.
That's nothing but an inheritance capability of a class to inherit properties from the parent class.
So this is a child class.
It has the capability to inherit the properties from the parent.
So parent has let's say parent class has property.
Let's say I have a property called color.
Let's say in a dog color.
Child has, let's say, a property called age.
Data properties, you know, right now data variables.
So now if you see that child also now automatically has color also.
So because it inherit.
So whatever the parent has child will also has child has its own properties age but it also has its
parent.
Also parent has color right.
So ultimately you can also access with child object color.
Also this property is also accessible but opposite is not true.
So if you have parent object you will not be able to access age.
But if you have child object you can access color also parent.
Also, it can inherit both functions and variables so we don't have to write them again in the child
classes.
I told you right?
Whatever the variables and functions, two things a class can have.
This child will also have variable functions.
So child will have all the functions which parent has plus all the variables is parent has.
We don't have to write it again.
It if it inherited from here it can have all this.
But parent doesn't have the one.
Let me tell you with an example.
For example class vehicle I created a vehicle.
A class vehicle can have let's say vehicle had have what all the properties vehicle have is engine.
Let's say I would say that Boolean.
Has engine.
It has this variable.
And let's say it has one function uh let's say a get engine.
It will return this variable has engine.
And this is boolean return type.
I'll tell you about this one.
So let's say this is one normal class A vehicle.
It has what certain one data variable.
It has one function.
A class can have only two things variables and functions.
Right now I told you that inheritance means we are creating a child of this class.
So now what I am creating is kind of this vehicle.
Vehicle as a child class called let's say car.
I want to create this one.
How I can create now I can create another class.
So this is another class car.
Class is car.
How can I inherit.
Inherit can be done through keyword extends.
Don't worry about this.
We'll go more deep.
Extends.
This extends vehicle.
Vehicle.
So now with this extend keyword, we make the child as a we make car as a child of vehicle.
Right.
And I add it, uh.
This thing is in.
What is the CC 800 cc or whatever.
This one.
Or I would say that more is like a type petrol or diesel type, something like this.
Let's say a string, uh, type.
So okay, so now car has its own type, whether it's a or you can say that car type is like a hatchback,
hatchback, SUV sedan.
What is the car type.
So but this is its own variable and it can have its own method.
Also get car type let's say and it will return the car type.
Now what we have done is we have created a vehicle which has its own variable and functions.
And we have created a car.
Car is also now we make it a child of a vehicle through keyword extends.
Right.
So now it becomes a child.
And car has its own variable and functions.
It has its own variable and function car type and get method.
But since car is a child of vehicle, it has its access to all the variable and function it has access
to.
Engine also has engine and this one.
So now let's say if I created a car object how you can create an object.
So let's say I want to create this class object this class.
So car let's say I created an object.
Let's say Swift equals to new is the keyword which help us to create an object of car.
So now I created a car object Swift.
So now I wanted to access Swift Dot I wanted to access if I write get engine.
Jet engine.
Is it a valid or not?
It is a valid because even though jet engine method is not present into the car here, it has only get
car type, get car type but get engine is there?
No, but since car is a child of vehicle.
Vehicle has get engine.
It can access it right.
But now let's say you created a vehicle object.
Let's say vehicle.
My vehicle object equals to new vehicle.
Now vehicle object.
This vehicle object whichever I created dot, let's say I'm creating get car type.
Get car type.
Is it right or not.
No.
Because vehicle is not inherited from car.
It cannot take its properties.
Right.
So it cannot it it doesn't have get car type.
So this it doesn't have any car type so it cannot access it.
Right.
So it can only access its own one, but its child can access it one.
Understood.
This one.
Inheritance.
Right.
So this is known as inheritance.
And there are different types of inheritance.
Single inheritance.
Multi-level, hierarchical and multiple inheritance.
Let me tell you.
Like in a quick manner, what are the different ones?
So inheritance can be achieved through two ways that I will tell you in the next one.
So but here understand the inheritance one the four types of inheritance.
And there is some certain thing called diamond problem which is very important.
So four types of inheritance single single class A.
This is known as class B.
This is single inheritance.
Second is multilevel.
Multi-level is you have class A, second level is your, let's say class B.
Then from class B somebody extended class C it can go on.
So this is known as your multilevel.
Now there is something called.
Hierarchical.
And there is something called another is multiple.
Multiple multiple.
You have class A Class B.
Class C.
It extended from both, which is not allowed in Java.
It might be allowed in C++, but in Java it is not allowed.
I will tell you why.
Right?
So here, uh, and this is one thing called in hierarchical is.
Class A.
Class B inherited from class A.
Class C inherited also from class A right.
But this is not allowed from class A and B a C cannot have it.
This is not allowed.
Right.
Somebody let's say till here it is allowed.
Hierarchical is allowed from one class.
Class B can extend class A.
Class C can extend class A but in the multiple from both the classes this is not allowed.
This is known as diamond problem.
Diamond problem.
So this is not allowed.
There is a way through which we can get this right.
So I told you that with extend it cannot be done.
But through interface we can do it.
I'll tell you later.
But see this.
Why this is not allowed.
This is important to understand this one.
Why this diamond problem is not allowed.
So here let me add a new slide.
So see understand this one.
Very simple to understand it.
But sometime, uh, many candidate get confused why?
Uh, multiple is not allowed.
Class B.
Class C okay.
Example, let's take one example.
Class have had one method.
Let's say get engine simple.
Same example get engine okay.
Let's say class B also has one method.
Get engine same method.
But because it's a different different class, right method can happen.
Now I am creating a class C.
It extends let's say if it present extend from a comma B.
Let's say this is not possible.
But let's say if this is not allowed in Java, so it is not possible.
But let's say if it is, if it is, what is the issue?
Now, I told you that a class child class has access to both parent members and function.
Now let's say I create a class C object.
Uh, class C Object equals to new c.
New c.
Let's say I created a C class object.
This is a c class object equals to new c.
Now if I'm creating object dot get engine.
What it will do.
So now this is a child class object.
This is a child class object.
And I called Get engine.
Now will it call a get engine of class A or get engine of class B?
Which one it will call it will not able to identify hey, which class engine I have to invoke to make
this simple, Java doesn't add it itself.
Right.
So with the extend keyword it cannot be done.
You understand the problem?
Diamond problem.
Yeah.
So there is a confusion.
Which method?
Which method to call because class child class has access to both the one parent class feature no parent,
so it also has access to get engine.
It also has access to get engine.
But when somebody calls a child class C get engine, which one to call now doesn't know.
So this is known as diamond problem.
It is not allowed through interface.
We can allow it through.
Let's say if I create a class now not class interface A, interface B now I created one class C, now
it implements.
So whenever there is an interface right it use implements to extend.
It is also child class.
Now a comma B.
Now this is allowed right.
But how this is allowed we will see later.
But through this one we can do a hack on this one because it will override it override functionality.
So I'll tell you this later.
So I'll keep this like interface.
We will go detail.
Otherwise currently it will confuse you.
But now understand this with the class one.
It is not possible.
Diamond problem cannot be resolved.
But with interface it can be resolved.
Interface.
Also it's a proper child only we can call it as a child member class only.
But with this it can be solved.
But I'll tell you where because first we need to understand the overriding for it.
Okay?
So keep it later when we will go.
Interface.
Right?
I'll come to this again, but I hope currently you understand what is inheritance?
What are the different types of inheritance and why multiple inheritance is not possible.
It is known as diamond problem.
It cannot be solved through interface.
It can be solved.
So one question.
The last example which we try to extend, although it is wrong, you already said.
say?
But suppose if I have the jet engine, uh, in class C itself.
Mm.
Then it's not an issue.
Then it's not an issue because it will ultimately call its one only.
But c uh, but it has a chance of issue because, uh, class C, if it doesn't add that jet engine method
to itself, then means if jet engine present it to its parent, it will call that, then it's an issue,
right?
Yes, you are right, man.
So that's where uh, now you ask this question, then I'll tell you that that's why interface it's not
an issue because in interface you cannot implement like this.
In interface you can only say that jet engine.
That's all.
You don't implement it.
So let's say this interface A this interface B jet engine You don't implement it.
Now when you write class C, which is implementing implements a comma B both from both.
Now it has to implement.
Now it will say get engine.
Now it will do its implementation.
So that's why with interface we should be able to do is because with interface you cannot write it,
just a definition you provide in the interface for the method.
The code implementation is not possible inside an interface.
You just provide a definition.
So whichever class implements the interface it has the responsibility to write proper implementation
of it.
Right.
So we will come to interface later.
But yeah, but since you asked that question because if class C implements it it's not an issue.
And that's where interface makes class C mandatory.
Yeah.
Hey I have defined get engine Then only I haven't implemented it.
Class B has also defined Get engine.
I haven't implemented it.
But now since class C has implemented from both.
So it has to implement all the methods which interface has.
So it has to implement it.
Now get engine.
So it has to implement.
So ultimately whenever object will call it will call.
Its only.
And because if we if there is a common method also then only 111 method also.
Yeah true.
So that's why multiple inheritance is not possible.
But through interface we can solve it.
And it's a diamond problem which is not supported but through interface you can say that it's a hack.
What is the advantage of inheritance.
Somebody asks like code reusability because let's say parent has certain code, which I don't want to
write it.
Again, I can reuse it.
So code reusability.
And another is we can achieve polymorphism using inheritance.
That's why I wanted to tell.
Now what happen is polymorphism through inheritance I will tell you now the next one is polymorphism
last, right?
I hope you are not overflowed with information.
You are in proper in line with me.
Like, uh, base is important, but this is the last one, right?
I will not stretch much.
Uh, so till now you are with me, right?
All the pillars properly.
Guys.
Okay.
Yeah.
So now let's come to the polymorphism.
I'll tell you how inheritance helps in polymorphism.
So there are C poly means many morphism means form a same method.
So let's say you have a method.
A same method has the capability to take many forms.
It is known as polymorphism.
Let's say I have one method uh example which I have taken is a person.
A person can be a father.
A person can be a husband, a person can be an employee.
So a person has ability to take many forms, so it's a polymorphism.
Water.
Water can be in liquid solid gas.
The same thing in different forms.
It is known as polymorphism.
So a same method.
Same method behaves differently in different situation right.
I'll tell you how it behaves differently.
So there are two type of polymorphism which is very frequently asked method overloading which is known
as static polymorphism also known as compile time polymorphism.
Any with anything they can ask explain compile time polymorphism or static polymorphism or method overloading.
Another type is method overriding or dynamic polymorphism or runtime polymorphism.
So these are the different names.
Now let's see.
Let's say you have one class.
Class uh take it as a some.
sum.
I have a sum right?
And I have a method.
Let's say I get or I will say that.
Uh.
Do some.
Int a comma int b.
Let's say returning the int it return a plus b.
So let's say you have a class sum and the one of the method is do sum it.
It takes two variable a and b.
So what it is returning it just do some and return.
This is simple method.
So now I'm first telling you overloading.
Or compile time compile time.
Polymorphism or static polymorphism.
So what is static polymorphism or overloading?
Is int I right.
Same method with same name.
Do some, do some right.
But here if you see that it differs in parameters.
So this is you can say that overloading.
So here if you see that do some do some.
But here it is taking integer.
It is here it is taking string.
This is allowed.
It is known as overloading I can write another do some integer a comma integer b comma integer c.
Right.
So here now I have three.
Do some do some again do some.
But here it has two integer.
Here it has three integers.
Now.
So here, if you see that what is overloading is a same method, a same method name, a same method
name, but the parameter defaults.
Here it is taking integer, here it is taking string.
But here it is again taking integer but different number.
So all are different.
So here it is two.
It is three.
It is known as overloading.
So it's a compile time because here at the compile time itself Java knows that.
Let's say somebody is calling, let's say somebody is calling an some object.
Some let's say I'm creating an object calculate object calc object new some.
So I am creating a some class object.
Now I am calling one method calc object.
I am creating a calc object calc object dot do some.
Now I am passing let's say five comma two so it knows that which method to call if I pass.
Do some, uh, a comma b.
It knows that which method to call these are string.
It will call a string.
Right.
If I pass three uh three comma four comma two.
So it knows that which method to call.
So it already has all the information at the compile time itself.
Right.
Even though name are same.
Do some do some do some.
Right.
But it knows that okay.
Whenever this it has two integer.
Whenever two integer will come.
It will pass it to this one.
Whenever a string will come it will connect to this one.
Right.
So but here if you see till now it is clear what is overloading.
This is known as method overloading or static polymorphism or compile time polymorphism.
Um, one question is like suppose if I write in to do some uh and then int x comma int y mm.
Just changing the name of the parameter.
No but the type is same.
No, that is, uh, if I have x and y here, it's still wrong, because now type is same.
Okay, so let's say here one example I want to tell, let's say this is one method certain and I am
writing another method.
Now I am changing the return type string.
Do some int x comma int y again function.
So here if you say it is int x again here it is into a similar method.
Name is same, return type is different.
Here it was returning integer.
Now here it is returning string.
It will change it to string and return.
This is not allowed on the basis of return.
Type overloading cannot be done only on the basis of parameters.
It can differ on the basis of runtime.
On the basis of return type it is not possible.
So this is a very time interviewer asked that is this a right way to do it or not.
Overloading.
Everything is same, but return type is changed.
This is not allowed because during compile time, right?
It doesn't check the return type.
So return type even though are different, it doesn't bother because it only compares while doing binding
right?
While it bind it only compare the arguments which you are going to pass.
What it's going to return.
It doesn't check the binding on top of it.
It's just check.
Okay.
What arguments you are going to pass.
See here.
Just see this example.
So now I have two classes.
Now two methods sorry two methods the same.
But one is differ in the return type of n.
Another is differ on the return type of string.
Now another class I am calling let's say object the same calc object calc object dot do some.
five comma two.
Again do some five comma two.
But one is returning integer one is returning string.
But it will get confused.
Hey, which one to call?
Do I need to call?
Both are integer integer because on the return type it won't check.
Okay.
Are you taking it?
Assigning it into integer or into string?
It.
Do not check this.
Okay.
You are taking it into integer.
I need to call this one.
Okay.
You are taking this into string.
I need to call this one because many times it possible that you don't bother about catching it.
You don't bother about hey, whatever you get, I don't worry about it.
You just call it right.
So based upon this information itself, arguments both are same.
It cannot determine which to invoke.
Right.
So that's why return type it ignores.
And that's why if return types only differs it is not known as correct overloading.
Okay, you got it.
Compile time overloading.
Yeah.
Now let's see.
Uh, method overriding, which I think you already know by now, because the previous question which
has been asked.
Right.
Let's say you have class A.
I have a method, let's say get engine.
It returning.
Let's say true something.
Okay.
This is this method class.
This class closed.
Now I'm creating class B.
It extends Matlab.
It's a child of class A.
Here class B has the properties of class A means it has access to get engine.
But it also let's say I don't want to return.
True I need my own behavior.
It can override it, get engine, it overrides it.
And it says that it does its own computation and say that return based upon that computation, it returns,
let's say true or false.
Let's say false.
So it changed the behavior of the parent, even though method name is same and everything is same.
So in the overriding, if it has integer a, comma integer b, it should also have integer a, comma
integer b even the argument should be same in method overriding even the argument should be same.
Everything should be same.
Only the internal implementation can be differ.
And now which one to call, whether this or this that depend upon runtime runtime.
So now let's say I created an object of class B, class B object.
Let's say b.
OBJ equals to.
Let's say it's an object new b I created one object of class B and I am doing b dot get engine.
Which one it will invoke.
It will invoke the this engine get engine because it will call the method which is present inside this
class get engine let's say two integer right.
Integer a comma integer b.
Let's say five comma two.
So it will call this one.
But if I create a class object of class A, a object a equals to new a, and I will say that object
a dot get engine.
Four comma two anything.
Now it will call which one.
It will call this one because this is now this class object.
So it will call this one.
So here if you see that.
So a child is be both has same method.
Get engine get engine except exactly the same definition of a method.
Return type is same method name is same argument type is same exactly everything is same.
Only the implementation might differ.
Might differ, right?
But which method to call it depend upon runtime depending upon the object which you have created.
If you have created an object of this one and you call the method, it will invoke this method.
If you created an object of this class and then invoke Get Engine, it will call this one.
This is known as dynamic.
On the runtime, you decide which method to call and also known as overriding in the overriding even
the arguments method name return type.
Everything is same in overloading.
Argument type should be changed and it's in the same class.
But here overriding everything should be the same and it through like inheritance, child class a,
B and then it has the exactly same methods.
Understood polymorphism.
So in method overriding uh, like as usual.
So first whatever call the method we call it will be first looking inside the child.
Now if it is present, whatever object, which class object you are creating.
So let's say you created an object of class B, then it first check.
Hey I have this.
Yeah.
Then it will call itself.
Right.
So yeah.
So that is the procedure right.
If suppose we create a class B object then first you will see in class B if the method is present correct.
If it is missing then you will check if it is extending from some correct class and then go to that.
Correct.
You are right.
Right and overriding means the Same method present into the child class also.
Return type.
Same method.
Name.
Same.
Argument.
Same.
Only the functionality differs.
Got that?
Overriding.
We look for everything.
Return type.
Parameter.
Type.
Everything.
Parameters.
Name.
Yeah.
But in overloading we just check for name and different number of arguments types or different number.
Return type.
Right, right.
So in method overloading inside a one class only, you have two methods with the same name and different
arguments or types of arguments.
But in the method overriding its parent child inside a parent you have same function.
And in child class you also have the same function.
Exactly.
Duplicate.
Right.
And then which one to call that depend upon runtime which object you have.
Right.
But in overloading.
Same class, but something changed.
Some argument changed because you can't have duplicate methods into the same class.
Correct?
Correct.
So that covers the four pillars.
Now just before going I will tell you the relationship.
It hardly take five minutes but it is important.
So whatever we have learned, if you see that we have covered two things, is the relationship has a
relationship.
Very very important part.
Right.
So whatever the inheritance you have learned A is a parent of B.
B is a child of A right.
This is known as inheritance or is a relationship.
B is a a right.
Let's say vehicle.
Car.
So car is a child of vehicle.
So I would say that it is is a relationship.
Car is a vehicle, right?
For example, achieved through inheritance.
Dog is an animal.
So I have an animal.
I created a dog so I can say that dog is an animal.
Inheritance form is.
Inheritance form is a is a relationship.
Okay, so whenever somebody asks, hey, can you tell me is a relationship?
What do you understand by this?
Means nothing but an inheritance.
So it means indirectly.
They are asking you about inheritance.
Okay, tell that now.
Second is has a relationship.
Has a relationship.
Means.
Has a relationship means.
Uh, I mean, you are very late.
Okay.
So now has a relationship means.
You created a class A.
Now let's say you have another class B.
Right.
So in the class A itself you has the object of class B.
So let's say class A has what?
What?
Two things.
Class A has data variables and data methods.
Data variables and data methods.
So data variables like it has let's say integer x.
And it also has object of this one.
So it has let's say class b uh b object B class object.
So this is also a variable means instead of primitive like say integer it has the object of this one.
So has a relation says that whenever an object is used in another class.
So object of class B is present into class A.
So I can say that class A has class B.
So class A has object of class B right.
So it can be 1 to 1 relation one to many many to many.
For example a student And course.
This is class course.
This is class.
Excuse my Spelling's handwriting.
Class student.
Class.
Course.
So I told you that has a relationship.
Can have 1 to 1.
One to many, many to many.
So.
Right.
Let's say a student can have one course, right?
Let's say it has taken one course.
So I have an object here.
Course.
Let's say I have some English.
So a student can have one course.
So it's a 1 to 1, one to many.
One to many.
A student has list of course.
List of course.
So it will have let's say list here.
Now course list.
It can have English Hindi right.
Maths.
It has a list of course.
Got it.
So student has if one course one object of a course it has 1 to 1.
If a student one to many means student has many courses, list of courses one to many and another is
important is many to many.
So now here if you see that the student has list of courses but a course, let's say if it's an English
course, it has a list of student.
A one English course can be taken by many students.
So it does also have a list of students.
So here if you say that a student has many courses, one student can have many courses.
Similarly a one course let's say English can have many students.
Right?
So has a relationship means one class has an object of another class.
Right.
It is known as hazard relationship.
And hazard relationship could be 1 to 1 one to many many to many.
Take this example a bike has an engine.
If you created a bike class and you have an another engine class, so you create a bike and we can create
an engine object.
Bike has an engine object.
A school has a class, a school has a student.
You got it.
What is has a relationship?
Whenever inside a particular class, you have an object of another class.
It is also known as data member data variable, but it is an object of another class.
It is known as has a relationship you understand has a relationship.
Yeah.
So like does it depends only on classes or classes.
Classes.
Classes only classes.
Classes objects okay okay.
So now I was thinking one thing like main method always have lot of class instantiation.
Huh?
It's very but that is a method.
No that is a method.
So it's all I'm talking about the class.
So class A has.
So this is a data variable itself like integer age right.
Similarly it has a variable also this one.
So now see this.
This has a relationship is of two types.
Again very important guys.
This.
Aggregation and composition.
The last is weak relation.
Weak relation is strong relation.
Matter of definition.
Now you have taken, let's say uh, student or let's say school, a school, a school, a class.
And then you have a student, a student as one class.
The school has many students.
It has list of student object, let's say student.
It has list of student object.
But now let's say it has has a relationship because one class has an object of another class.
But now let's say one thing got destroyed.
Let's say student got destroyed.
This class, I deleted it will school will get deleted.
No write a school will.
Both are.
It's.
That's why it is called weak relationship.
If any one is removed, another thing will not get removed, right?
Both objects can survive independently.
Means ending of one object will not end another object.
If I destroy the school, will a student will get destroyed.
Also, no students will enroll to some other school.
But this school destroyed.
Both are independent, right?
Similarly, just take an example that school classes or rooms?
School rooms.
Now let's say if I destroyed school, definitely room will also get destroyed.
Let's say room has 100 rooms.
School has 100 rooms.
If I destroyed school, definitely rooms will also get destroyed.
So they are strongly related.
Strongly related.
Ending of one object will end another object.
You got it.
Hey, one question.
Like you said in school, you have list of students, huh?
Okay.
In weak relationship.
Can you remove students from school?
It won't impact school.
Correct.
School later will can have another student's future.
But school will still be present.
But it's an empty.
So suppose I create an object of school, and then I try to access this list of students.
What will happen?
It will be empty.
Let's say empty.
No students and list would be empty.
That's it.
Like suppose that list has been cited with creating an object of the student.
Okay, so you are creating a if object is not even present.
Yeah.
But that's okay.
We can remove that thing.
But the school is not destroyed.
Yeah.
School is not destroyed.
But won't that give any error?
Because we are trying to access a class called College student, which is not present.
Okay, so see this one now?
Okay.
Uh, see, with this simple example, there are, let's say 100 students.
Okay.
If you remove five students, will school get destroyed?
No, no.
Right.
If definitely you.
I'm what?
I think your question is if you definitely delete this class itself.
Student class.
Definitely.
You have to change it because there will be a compilation error.
Right.
But I'm saying is let's say you have 100 student out of 100 student, if you destroyed even 99 student
or even all hundred students, you destroyed the objects.
But you have a class, but you destroyed all the objects.
A student will not.
School will not get deleted.
But let's say you have a school, a school and rooms.
Now in a particular.
When you create a school object, then you create rooms, right?
Okay.
I have created a school a.
The school A has four rooms.
I created another school B, school B has ten rooms.
Now, if I destroy this object, this four classes will automatically get destroyed.
Also, if I destroy this object.
Now I'm talking about object.
If I destroy this object, this whatever that classes which I have rooms which I have created that will
also get destroyed.
But if you destroy the class itself, then definitely there will be compilation error for sure if somebody
has the reference.
Okay, okay, but understand it's all talking from the object perspective.
If removing of one object impacts other, it's a strong has a relationship.
If removing of one object doesn't impact the other, it is a weak has the relationship weak relationship
known as aggregation strong is known as composition.
Okay, see you guys.
Bye.