Is welcome to concept encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in Spring Boot we are going to start at the transaction annotation.
But before that I would highly recommend you to watch these two videos.
The one is the concurrency control which I have shared in the playlist.
And another is the Spring Boot AOP, which we have just recently covered in the Spring Boot playlist.
Okay, so if you already know about these two concepts, then we are good to go and let's start it.
So one thing before we start we have to understand about critical section.
So it's a very simple critical section definition.
So it's a code segment where shared resources are being accessed and modified okay.
So now let's say that this is my shared resource.
You so a cab okay.
So in DB let's say that this car has ID 1001 and currently status is available.
Now there is a code segment where we are accessing this shared resource and also trying to update it.
Okay.
So that's why it's known as critical section.
So now what happens is when multiple requests try to access this critical section data inconsistency
inconsistency can happen.
Now let's say that four people are trying to book a cab parallel.
So now let's say that four requests comes here in the critical section in parallel.
So all will read car with 1001.
Yes, they will all read successfully if status is available.
Yes.
Current status is available.
Updated to book for all four.
They will write.
Your car is booked.
If critical section is not handled properly right.
Then during multiple requests data inconsistency can happen.
So what is the solution?
The solution is usage of transaction.
The transaction helps to achieve asset property we like during first year or second year.
We all have studied asset property in the DB right.
So we just to remind you that the first A in the asset is atomicity.
Atomicity says that in a transaction, if any operation fails, the entire transaction will get rollback.
What does it mean quickly?
Let's say that in a DB A has ₹10, B has ₹20.
Now this is your transaction in transaction.
Let's say you want to debit a ₹5.
You want to credit B ₹5.
This is a particular, let's say transaction one.
Okay.
So now what?
Atomicity says that first these are operation.
Operation one.
Operation two.
Okay.
So let's say the first operation executed, you debited a.
So now it would be like ₹5.
Now during credit some failure happened and this operation got failed.
The credit operation got failed.
So as per the atomicity, if any operation fails, the entire transaction will get rollback.
So entire transaction, whatever the operations are there previous operation will get rollback.
So means this debit operation which got success will also get rollback.
So this instead of ₹5 it will again goes back to ₹10.
Okay.
So that's what actually.
Lead to consistency which says that before and after the transaction our DB should be consistent only.
So my DB was inconsistent.
State ₹10 and ₹20.
Right?
A and B after running the transaction.
Right.
Whether it's a successful or failure, doesn't matter, right?
If it is a success, my DB state would be a would be, let's say ₹5 and B would be ₹25.
So this state of a DB is also consistent if there is a failure.
So again my DB state would be consistent.
Okay.
So this property consistency says that no matter after and before the transaction my DB should be consistent
only there should not be any inconsistency like okay the debit got successfully happen ₹5 but credit
doesn't happen.
So credit is still ₹20.
That is inconsistent state okay.
So both are linked to each other.
Then there is a something called isolation.
Isolation says that even if multiple transactions are running in parallel, they do not interfere with
each other.
So this is just one operation, right?
You need to debit a ₹5 credit B ₹5.
This is just a one transaction.
There could be, let's say multiple transaction running in parallel.
There could be another transaction like debit A ₹2, credit B ₹2.
There could be another transaction credit a debit b something.
Something x y something.
So what I'm trying to say is that multiple transaction can run at the same time, but they will feel
like they are running individually, independently, right?
In an isolation environment, like nobody is interfering to each other.
Okay.
So now let's say that everybody wants to update a transaction one, transaction two, transaction three.
And if there are any more, all wants to update a so transaction makes sure that one only one of them
will take up lock on this and one of them only will update it.
Okay.
And once the lock is free then only it will be given to another transaction and then it will work.
So internally transaction make a proper sequence.
Even though from the outside world we all see that all transactions are running in parallel.
But it's not right internally.
Transactional.
Make use of locking and make sure that the operations are in proper sequence manner.
So each transaction feels that they are running in isolation and no no multiple transaction interfere
with each other.
And the last one is durability, which says that once your transaction, let's say this transaction
done its operation and it done commit.
Now once the commit is happened.
Right.
This data is persisted means now, even if your system crash, this data should not get lost.
Okay, so that's what durability says.
That and all this atomicity, consistency, isolation and durability guarantee is provided by transaction.
And that's why it is very, very popular into during financial kind of applications, all financial
applications mostly use uh which DB which have which provide this asset property.
Okay.
So generally this is like you begin a transaction, then you have your operations.
Then if all operations got success you do commit means you persisted into the DB.
Else if any failure your rollback will happen right.
Rollback of all transactions and you end the transaction.
So you have to do this.
You have to do this And now understand that in your application, let's say you have 100 methods, you
have 100 methods, or I would say that 1000 methods.
So let's say that you have 1000 methods which where it is actually touching the DB.
Okay.
So let's say that this is update update user.
So it is actually touching the DB write update bulk user.
This is also actually updating the DB update user by id something.
This is by email ID something different different flavors right.
So all these are actually internally touching the DB.
So you have to use this transaction for each.
Now here if you see that your actual business logic is this only which one is your actual business logic.
Actually this debit from a credit to be.
But here if you see that the lot of things you have to do just for the transactional just to achieve
the asset property begin if all success commit else rollback and transaction.
But if you focus this read only, this is actually your business logic.
Rest is all the verbose, right?
This is.
And if you see that there's lot of duplicate, you have to do, you have to do in this method, this
method, this method, this is just one class.
If there are hundreds of class multiple methods in all methods you have to put begin transaction and
transaction.
If all success commit, else rollback and then you have to put your operation.
So this can be simplified through at the rate transactional annotation in spring boot.
Right.
So in spring boot we can achieve this through this annotation.
So if you want to use this annotation you have to add certain dependency.
So this two dependency you have to add the first dependency is like dependent upon your which DB you
are using.
So let's say if you are using relational db then data JPA works fine right?
From this data JPA you can you can get at the rate transactional annotation, right?
If you are not using relational DB, you are using NoSQL because there are many NoSQL DB which also
provide transactional support.
So this dependency will get changed depend upon the DB which you are using.
Okay.
Because you need at the rate transactional annotation, but it is coming from which dependency depend
upon the DB.
And now since DB got involved you have to use a particular driver also database driver also.
So this is the second dependency you have to add.
So in the form you also have to add database driver.
Right.
And in application dot property you have to provide it username and password also.
So this database driver I haven't uh explaining you here.
What is the dependency and what things you have to put in application dot property.
Because in the next topic after at the rate transaction we will cover this in depth.
For now, like whatever the DB you are using for learning.
Right.
Uh, you can just check what is the database driver dependency in spring boot documentation.
You will get that.
Add this into the Pom.xml right.
So that will works out.
But this two dependency you have to add.
And also this is optional right.
At the rate enable transaction management in your spring boot application class main where you are actually
the main method is there.
This is optional because even if you don't write, I told you that Spring Boot automatically configures
so many things for us, so it will add it for us even if you don't write it.
But just for mentioning that this is also required.
Let's say that somehow spring do not add it.
Let's see what would happen then in whatever method you have put at the rate transactional annotation,
right?
That will not be read.
So it's like we have to enable the transaction management actually.
Right.
So with that, once this available is spring boot scan for and look for at the transactional specifically.
But generally it's not added it's automatically added by spring boot.
Just a heads up okay.
Now at the transactional property can be applied at class level and at method level.
If you applied at the class level then it will automatically get applied to all the public methods,
but not at the private method.
Okay, and if you are using at the method level, it will get applied to only particular method only.
So now you are using transaction.
So only update car.
Now all this is now your critical section.
Kind of.
So all this code inside this is now your critical section right.
And it would get handled through like begin transaction.
Right.
All your business logic.
Right.
And if any failure inside this operation rollback will happen.
And after all successful commit will happen right.
This will but not for this because this is method level.
Okay.
So now transaction management in spring boot uses AOP.
That's why I told you that AOP is the first prerequisite, which you should know Because here you have
to know about pointcut and advice, which we have explained in AOP.
Otherwise, you will not understand how transaction management actually works internally.
So what happened is internally transaction management, this annotation right at the rate transactional.
Uses AOP.
I told you the use of AOP, that AOP told us that hey you focus on your business logic, right?
And all the verbose like duplicate code.
I can take care of it.
And now I already told you that here this is all duplicate.
You have to write in each and every method which you which is like duplicate, right?
And only this is your business logic.
You have to concentrate only this debit from A and credit to B.
This all verbose is not actually your problem.
So that's where AOP comes into the picture.
So All this.
Now we are using at the rate transaction only.
But where is actually begin transaction.
All success.
Then do commit.
Else any failure do rollback and transaction.
Where.
All this where where are all this code.
It is present inside a particular aspect.
Okay I will tell you how how it done where it is present.
But this verbose code is present there and it has a placeholder join point.
You already know that from the previous right in the join point it invokes your method.
Okay, so this is actually your business logic.
So you focus on this method right.
Adding all these things AOP will take care of it just by this annotation okay.
So internally AOP are internally at the transactional.
What I told you, right?
It uses AOP.
AOP has all.
AOP has Pointcut expression.
Pointcut expression and advice and advice.
Okay, so the Pointcut expression which it might be using is like this.
At the rate within and the path of this annotation transactional.
So all the package Subpackage right.
It will look for all the classes and inside all the classes, all the method which has this annotation,
if any method it found that it has at transactional annotation the match will happen, the Pointcut
expression match will happen.
And when the Pointcut expression match will happen, you know that what generally happen is advice is
run okay, the advice is run.
And what is the advice here?
Now once the pointcut expression matches in at the transactional, It runs an around type advice.
So there are three type of advice I told you after, before and around.
So the this around type is generally used for transactional right.
And where is this advice method which is executed.
It is present inside the transactional interceptor class.
And this is the your method which is act as an advice.
Okay.
So now here if you see I am showing you the code, I have written a very very simple controller class.
Okay.
This controller class I have given a name user controller.
Right.
And the API is slash API slash update user okay.
So slash API and I have created a method called update user.
And this is the get get mapping generally should be post mapping because I'm trying to update.
Okay.
This is just an example.
You can change it.
So this is the API I wanted to expose slash update user okay.
Inside this I am calling this dependency.
I have put an auto wire on user.
So this so user dot update user.
Now here if you see that in the update user method I have used at the rate transactional annotation
okay.
So now at transactional proper annotation brings me all the capability of asset right.
So now what how this actually works.
Where is begin and all these things.
So you know that first point when you start an application the Pointcut expression will match the Pointcut
expression.
Let's say that this is the Pointcut expression.
Okay.
So using this Pointcut expression it is able to see that yes, this is a match.
A method has this annotation.
That's what we are looking for.
Now what advice has to run.
Okay.
So which is the advice.
So inside a transactional interceptor class there is this method invoke within transaction.
This is nothing but an advice right.
So this will get invoked.
So now here if you see that in this advice method you will see that first it will create a transaction
okay.
Then it will invoke your method right.
So your transaction is started like this.
Begin transaction.
Transaction is started.
Then you can perform your operation.
This is the place it invokes your method.
So this method will get invoked.
Now you perform your update query.
Now, if any exception comes, if any exception comes.
What it will do is it will catch it and it will inside this it will roll back.
If you go inside this complete transaction after throwing, you will see that it will it will be doing
rollback.
But if there is no exception everything is success.
It should do commit.
So all success it is doing commit transaction.
Now no matter if you have if you have hundreds of classes like this user, there is another table.
Let's say employee.
There is another table.
Let's say like order another class.
You have so many classes and each class has multiple methods.
1010 methods which is querying the DB, updating the DB right.
Modifying the DB.
So you have you don't have to write all this in each and every method.
You will just use at the rate transactional.
Now here, if you see that this code is used only at once, right.
You don't have to duplicate it.
And this is not even part of your code.
This is coming from Spring Boot framework itself.
So this is not so.
You are just concentrating on your method.
You are just method got invoked here.
You are just concentrating on your business logic.
Okay.
So let's let me tell you this.
Like so the same thing I have this controller class okay.
One simple update method.
You can change it to post mapping okay.
Update user.
It's calling an update user method.
And inside this update user method this is again at the rate component uh managed by Spring Boot.
But I have put at the rate transaction here.
So currently I'm not throwing any exception here.
Let's say everything got success.
Now let's say that I am starting my application Okay, so I have started my application.
Okay, now let's run this.
So I am hitting this API update user slash API slash update user.
So now when I hit this now here if you see the first control goes to into this method invoke within
transaction which is there in transaction aspect support.
If you see that the transaction interceptor class right, it extends from transaction aspect support
itself.
So it's a parent class of transaction interceptor generally.
So this transaction aspect support is nothing but a parent class of transaction interceptor.
So here invoke within transaction get invoked.
Now currently what it is doing is it is creating a transaction.
After that it will proceed over.
It will call our method.
Now here if you see our method call.
So what now you can run your operation.
Whatever the operation you have to run update DB whatever.
Now, what would happen is once the operations are performed, if everything is success, it will try
to commit.
So commit successful.
Now let's say that instead of all success, I am throwing an exception.
New runtime exception.
I'm throwing some runtime exception.
Now let's start an application again.
Okay, so now I am hitting the API again.
So first it will create a transaction.
Once the transaction is begin transaction happen it will try to invoke our method.
Now our method is throwing an exception.
So it has been catch.
And if you go inside this what it is doing is it is doing rollback.
Okay.
So actually it does rollback.
So got it.
Now internally just by putting at the rate transactional everything magically works out.
So there is nothing magic.
Everything code is there.
But only thing is, it is hidden from us.
Spring boot is taking care of it, right?
But internally we are still doing the same thing.
So now you know how the transaction works.
Now we have to understand all these things much better way.
What is transaction context?
Different types of transaction manager.
Programmatic and declarative.
The propagation.
Right.
Very important.
So there are different type of propagation isolation level.
Configure transaction timeout.
What is read only transaction and many more.
So we will go in this depth in next part of this video.
I'll see you in the next part of this video.
And there we will cover all the remaining part of the transaction annotation.
Thank you.
Bye.