# Scale from ZERO to MILLION User (English Dub) | Better with 1.25x playback speed

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept no coding.
So today if you are watching this video it's the fifth video in the series.
And this video is very important which is like scaling from zero users to 1 million users.
So how can we do this here?
I'll cover many concepts of high level design, for example CD n horizontal and vertical scaling catching
load balancer.
Right.
And where are these used?
Okay.
So we have to set up all these things in such a way that our system can scale so much.
That if more than 1 million requests come, it can handle them well okay.
So let's start without any wastage of time and jump into this creation okay.
So here you will see that first of all I have divided this into steps into nine points Okay.
So here it's divided into nine points on how I can take it from 0 to 1 million.
What things I can do.
Okay, so I'll explain the 11 steps with a diagram of what changes have been made.
So the first is a single server.
Okay.
So what do we understand by a single server?
A single server means whenever we started a project in college, let's assume when we are launching
a new project ourselves, let's assume there are zero users.
Okay.
So all we have is my client.
Client could be your web or mobile.
And here let's assume what can happen.
Is the client directly with the server.
With the server okay.
Now the server is here we have one application server and application plus db.
Both are in the same server.
Okay, so we don't have a separate server.
My entire application is running here.
Okay.
The DB is also here.
I host my DB inside the server.
Okay.
So this is a very basic project which we have all done during college as part of wherever we did college
projects, kind of in line with this only.
So this is simple.
We've made a single server okay.
Now what's the second step.
Application and DB server separation okay.
Now we have to scale.
So first of all what do we have to correct.
First we have to correct that.
We have to separate this.
So we remove it from here.
And we first of all have to bring a new layer.
Let's call this layer as.
Mid-tier layer in which we say.
In which it will host the application server.
Here, you'll only run business logic.
Okay?
And this application server will be in contact with.
My DB.
This is my db.
This is you can see that it's dark out here.
And DB tier.
Okay so this is my DB server.
So why do we need this here.
Because let's assume I want to grow the application and DB independently.
So I have to remove the dependency okay.
And the most different thing is that to remove the dependency what is it to make both independent.
What is it.
Both should have separate servers okay.
So now here both can grow independently.
So my second point has been achieved okay.
What's the third.
Bringing the load balancer plus multiple app servers okay.
If I want to take more traffic then what do I have to do?
I have to change this model a bit.
How?
Here.
Now I'm changing in the mid tier.
Okay.
What am I changing in the mid tier here.
Now.
Let's remove this one.
Here.
Now we've brought that.
My client was.
Web and mobile.
Okay.
Now here I have multiple app servers.
Okay.
Multiple application servers.
So here it became app.
Server one.
App.
Server two.
Like this app server in this mid tier.
Okay.
But now the client cannot talk directly to all of these.
So in between I need a layer which is a load balancer.
So the job of the load balancer is that the client will only talk to the load balancer.
And the load balancer will decide to whom to forward the request.
Okay.
So the load balancer brings one more thing with it.
It brings security.
It brings privacy because the load balancer and the application servers talk on private IPS.
Okay.
So here the client on the internet cannot call my application server directly.
Okay.
So the load balancer and application server talk on private IPS.
So it brings one layer of security.
Okay.
And as the name clarifies the load balancer has to equally divide all the traffic coming to different
applications.
And why did we need multiple application servers.
Because you know if you have only one application server.
And let's assume there's one endpoint which let's assume get P.
So how many requests can it entertain every minute.
It's limited.
Let's assume it can take 1000 requests in one minute.
After that it will start dropping requests right.
So to increase that we need more app servers.
So here that's why we need different app servers.
So great.
We've done this to load balancer plus multiple app servers in the next step.
What am I increasing database replication okay now I'm improving the database with database replication.
What does database replication mean?
I want to bring here.
Now I'm improving the database here okay.
Now.
How am I improving it with database replication.
Now we all know what database replication is.
The master slave concept comes in okay I have a master DB.
I also have a slave db slave DB and here there can be multiple slave DB's.
There can be more than one slave DB and they replicate themselves with each other.
Okay, so now I bring my master slave DB and here all the requests, right?
Okay, all the write requests will go to my Masters create update and all my read will be from the slave.
Okay.
It will be from my slave.
So here what happens is that sometimes let's assume one node is bad, one db.
Let's assume there's a failure db.
So now I don't need to worry.
If a DB fails, my entire application won't go down because one db is there.
I have replicas okay, so the other node of db will be up and it will already handle the requests here.
If my master DB fails, then anyone slave DB gets promoted to become the master DB.
Okay, so the master DB takes care of the write operations, slave DB takes care of the read operations
and there can be many slaves.
Okay, so here it's a bit better that we've started to encounter failure as well.
What if the DB fails because similarly the situation is with the application server.
Also that if an application fails, what will happen?
The whole system will go down?
No.
Now we have multiple application servers.
So the load balancer will transfer the request to those not sending requests to the application that's
down.
It will only divide them among those that are up.
So now similarly we have done this in the DB also very good so far.
We've handled the failure use cases as well that if any system fails is still up okay.
So with data replication and multiple app servers we've done this now to improve performance a bit.
What do we do?
Use of cache.
So see where we'll apply the cache.
Okay.
So here you see that to apply the cache whenever our application server talks with the DB every time.
So consider this kind of a network call.
Okay.
So it takes a lot of time.
This is an expensive call.
Okay.
Whenever the application needs data from a DB to read or write DB operations are very expensive.
If you want to save it then before going to the DB, we should always check in the cache whether the
data is there or not.
So here the application can first call the cache.
So here if the cache has the data it would be considered a cache hit.
If the cache doesn't have the data, then the application has to go to the DB, which is called a cache
miss.
Okay, so now whatever request comes, my application server will first go to the cache.
If it gets the data from the cache, it will fulfill the request right there without needing to go to
the DB.
Otherwise, I will have to go to the DB and then write it to the cache and then I will return it.
So here what happened with the cache is that my performance increased here I saved DB calls.
So here by introducing the cache I increase the performance a bit.
Now let's consider what a CDN is.
So CDN is very very important okay.
So first of all what is a CDN.
Ken means content delivery.
Network.
And before going to CN, let me tell you one more thing.
When the application sets up the cache, it defines TTL here, which is known as time to live.
So this time to live could be 48 hours, 24 hours, seven days depending upon the application requirement.
Once this time to live expires, say after 24 hours, whatever data is inside it will be purged for
which the time to live is set up.
So then whenever fresh data comes, it will miss.
From here it won't be in the cache, and then the application will have to put it back in the cache
with a new TTL.
So now I was telling you about CDN content delivery network.
So content delivery network is also so understand here.
CDN.
Does catching.
But all those.
Who do catching.
Are not Christian.
What does it mean?
CN does catching, but not everyone who does catching is CN.
Okay, here I am catching.
Let's assume this is Readis.
It is catching.
Radius is not CN.
Okay, CN also is catching capability but CN also has some other functionality.
Okay.
So that's it.
It is known that CN does catching.
But all who do catching are not CN.
Now let's assume what CN is used for.
Then I'll tell you where it will be used.
Let's assume your application is working well in India.
Now your users are starting to come from outside, right?
USA, Switzerland, France.
They are coming from everywhere.
So let's assume this is your data center.
This is your data center.
Where?
Inside India.
Okay, so I have one user here in India.
I have one user here in the USA.
Okay.
One here in Japan.
One is here somewhere.
Let's assume in another country.
Considered as Saudi Arabia.
So now whenever they request your website, see India will access it quickly because the data centers
travelling time for request response is less.
Let's assume.
It's taking one millisecond.
Okay.
Saudi Arabia is a bit far.
How much time will it take for its users?
Let's say it takes two milliseconds.
Okay.
The USA is even further to go to the data center.
So let's say it takes three milliseconds.
Let's assume the traffic from Japan is coming.
It has a bit more routing request and response.
It is taking four milliseconds.
So now see, the user located near your data center is getting a quick response.
But your users are all over the world.
Okay.
When they are all over the world.
See there is a latency issue.
So who solves this problem?
CDN.
So now let's use a similar use case.
So now I have a db.
This is my original server.
Okay so now I had one user in the USA one user let's assume in France.
One user was mine in Japan.
And one user is mine in India.
And this server is mine in India.
So now what will I do here with my CD and notes.
Okay, so this is my CD.
And note this is a CD and note I can put many CD in notes.
So for example, in this case I am putting my CD and note in every country.
Okay, here is my CD and note.
I am thinking not to put it for India because my server is here, but it's always better to put a CD
in node.
Okay, so now what does CN do?
CN does catching catching of static data.
Okay.
What are static data.
Your HTML pages okay.
Then all our you can say videos okay videos HTML pages CSS files.
These are all static data that do not change.
So such information that changes very infrequently.
We put it inside the CDN.
Okay.
Now whenever a request comes it will first go to the nearest CDN.
Okay, if it comes from the USA now the USA doesn't need to go to the original server in India.
It will first go to the CDN node and ask if it has the website.
Let's assume and how it is stored here is by URL okay.
And there could be more methods.
So let's assume this URL has already been accessed.
So if it has been accessed it will get the response from here.
And similarly for France it will get the response from its nearest CDN.
Japan will get the response from there.
India will get it from its own.
But let's assume if there is no data, okay, then what will this CDN do?
It will ask its nearest CDN if it has the data.
Okay, if this one doesn't have it, then it will go to the original DB.
Okay.
Understood.
So what does CDN do?
It first goes to the CDN to see if the user's users request.
If the static data is already there, it will be served from there.
Because your original server, when you set up the CDN, you stored all the static data everywhere.
Okay, all locations have the data stored in the CDN.
Now, whenever a request comes, if the data is in the CDN, that is known as a cache hit.
Again, if it is not there, it first goes to the neighbor CDN to check if it has the data.
If not, then it goes to the original server.
So here what happened is that our performance increased, security increased because now it is not coming
directly to the server.
Let's assume there are many types of attacks like DDoS attacks.
Okay.
So we can enable our CDN with advanced technology.
There are many features you can add to CDN, so we can make it intelligent to see if it is a bot or
not.
So before coming to our original server, CDN will take action okay.
And so one load decreased on our DB and performance increased.
Security increased.
Okay.
So here you have cost cutting because you won't need many DB servers.
So did you understand the CDN concept what it is.
So where can you place this CDN.
What will be its original position.
The client can go to CDN here.
Before even going to the load balancer the client application goes to the CDN.
And if the CDN has the data, it will return it to the client.
If not, the CDN will check with the neighbor CDN.
If it doesn't have it either, then the request will hit the original server.
As I told you.
Now there are data centers.
Let's assume the data center where my application and the DB server were.
Let's assume in India.
Okay, so I can have more data centers in different locations.
All right.
So the client We'll make a request.
To whom?
To the load balancer.
Now, here I have different data centers.
Okay.
So different.
And the load balancer will send to different data centers.
In the same one data center.
What was there in one data center there were different application servers.
So it's the same here.
We haven't changed anything.
But here I also have App Server one.
App server.
All right.
And how it used to work with our DB.
Same thing.
Nothing has changed.
But now what has happened here I have this master DB.
And this is the slave DB.
Okay.
This replicates with it and here fulfills the write and read operation respectively.
So similarly here two.
Now this is let's say this is in India.
This is let's say in the USA.
So we can have different ones like this.
So what can the load balancer do.
The load balancer depends upon the geo request okay.
So what it can do is send it to multiple nearby data centers okay.
So now here we can have multiple advantages.
Let's say my data center in India goes down.
So what will the load balancer do.
It will fulfill all the traffic from the US data center okay DB replication happens here okay.
Between the India and US data centers.
So here you see that multiple data centers.
You understood that there's an India data center a USA data center.
So in this way the load on one data center is reduced.
Correct.
And here we already had a CDN.
Here we have a CD n and here our application talks to the cache also.
Okay so here I make it application talks to the cache also.
Application talks to the cache.
So data centers are clear to you that multiple data centers have been created.
Now its messaging queue.
Now messaging queue is a very interesting thing guys.
So now in messaging queue you first say that I'm already taking so many requests okay I can fulfill
millions of transactions with this.
Why do I need messaging?
Now?
Let me tell you why messaging is needed because it's a very important thing.
So this is called messaging queue.
Messaging queue.
So now like there are different types of messaging queues.
There's RabbitMQ there's RabbitMQ.
There's Kafka okay there's Kafka.
So what happens in this is that we have one producer.
Okay.
What does the producer do?
One.
What we are saying RabbitMQ.
Kafka.
So this is called messaging queue.
Inside the messaging queue it pushes a message.
And here there are different subscribers.
Okay.
So why is it called a queue.
It's not exactly called a queue.
It's called a topic.
Okay.
But now I'll explain to you.
So in this queue the message went message message two and subscriber subscribe to it okay.
Data has come.
Now I have to do something.
Okay.
So what does it do?
It brings the asynchronous nature in our code base.
Okay.
Async nature.
For example, for example we have the heaviest load operation to send notifications okay.
We have to send web send mail.
We have to notify the user okay.
So all these operations can be async.
So what do we do in this async two.
And okay.
And if not, what if the message wasn't sent?
Wait, you send again?
If not, send, send again.
So keep sending until it reaches.
So will you hold the request thread until then?
No, that would be very would very very bad design.
So what is in the messaging queue?
Put the message to now here.
As soon as the subscriber reads the message it will do its work.
If it fails then there is something called queue queue also that it will again queue and then you can
correct the failure and pick it back from that queue queue.
Okay, so you can do retry also.
So now let me tell you some terminology of messaging queue okay.
In messaging queue there is one exchange.
So here the producer.
First this is my messaging queue I'm taking an example of RabbitMQ inside this.
First there is an exchange.
This is called What?
Exchange.
Okay, then after this, here I have q.
This is Q one.
This is q two.
In this way there can be many Q's.
And this exchange and q have one binding.
So here both are linked by binding.
So these are called binding.
Binding okay.
And here what happens is the producer sends to the exchange here it sends the routing key.
Okay.
So first the producer sends a routing key with the message to the exchange.
The exchange looks at the routing key and compares it with the binding.
It decides which queue to send the data to and depending upon the queue which subscriber is listening
to that queue, it will notify the subscriber to and this was being done by the subscriber.
Okay, so now there are different ways to do exchange and queue.
So what is the first exchange.
And here I have a queue.
So now the first one I have is direct.
Okay indirect.
What happens is the routing key that came the routing key that came from the producer.
They match equals to equals to binding key.
What is the binding key.
The binding key is which binding key is there between the exchange and the queue.
If these two are equal then okay this routing key came.
This is the binding key of this queue.
So I will send it directly.
So the queue whose binding key matched it will send to that.
So the routing key came for example one and its binding key was one.
Its key was two.
So the routing key came one.
It matched right.
So it will send the data to it.
The second one is our fan.
Out.
In, fan out.
What happens is that this exchange I have, it sends to all the queues sends to Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4 sends
the same message to all.
Now, okay, whichever subscriber is linked to them, whoever wants to do it, whoever wants to ignore
it, will ignore it.
But fan, what does the exchange say?
It will send the message to everyone.
The third one is topic okay.
Now what happens inside the topic?
This exchange?
Okay.
It can send the message to more than one queue.
So okay so here you can say that direct is a little similar.
Direct comparison doesn't happen.
So you can say that some wild this is called wild comparison.
So let's say something like this comes up that if something matches up then I have to send it inside
this and this okay.
If it happens in this case then I have to send it inside this.
So it means you can send inside more than one Q in the topic.
And here direct comparison doesn't happen.
Exactly.
I'm saying the correct word.
Exact comparison doesn't happen.
A wild comparison happens that okay, after this, whatever happens, send it to.
Okay.
So now what did I say here that messaging Q brings and sync nature.
So here the application here I have to add one messaging Q okay, here I will need one messaging Q.
All right.
If they need to input any data, they can put it on the messaging queue which the subscribers of the
other application can read up.
Correct.
So what happened here is that an asynchronous nature came.
So with the asynchronous nature we can process the request fast.
Correct.
Now the most important is database scaling.
The last one is database scaling.
Now understand well what database scaling is.
It is of two types.
Vertical.
And horizontal.
What do we say in vertical.
How does our database seem right now.
All right.
In the database what do we have now.
We have a master slave.
All right I have one master DB.
And one slave DB.
All right.
So vertical scaling says that increase the capacity of our already existing DB servers meaning increase
CPU capability Ram capability.
All right.
So that when more requests come, my CPU and Ram can take care of it.
But what is the disadvantage of this?
There is always a limit that after one point you cannot increase Ram.
After one point, you cannot increase CPU.
All right.
So that's vertical.
It has some limits.
And what is horizontal say as the name suggests you can add more nodes.
All right.
We have to increase the capability of the same database node.
We add many nodes many database nodes instead of one.
Now there are two.
So I made it four.
All right.
So horizontal increase it says that vertical increases.
Now what is the implementation of horizontal increases.
What is its implementation.
Sharding is no sharding.
Sharding is also of two types horizontal.
And vertical.
All right.
So first of all what is sharding.
So in horizontal sharding what happens is suppose you have one table right.
It has rows.
Right.
How many rows are there?
Suppose row one, two, three.
Let's say there are 1000 rows.
So what does horizontal sharding say?
Original sharding says that.
Divide it into multiple tables.
All right.
Suppose in T1 what did I keep.
From row one to row 100.
What did I keep in T2.
From row 101 to row 200.
Or you can say up to 500 here and from 501 to 1000 here.
So now see I have divided it row wise.
And what happens here.
All right.
Understood.
First is horizontal sharding.
Horizontal sharding is row wise different rows.
Data is kept in different tables, meaning up to 100 is kept here or up to 500.
After that, I kept it in another table.
All right.
So what am I saying?
There is one name column.
So whoever's name is from A to D, they will all go to T one in shard one.
So t one sharding happened.
Shard.
Shard t one short t2 t2 t1 two minute.
Shard is divided.
So what am I saying?
Whoever's name is up to P, they will go to t1 shard after p from Q to Z.
Where will they go to shard T2 in this sharding.
Got it.
All right so here what is vertical sharding.
Original sharding is understood.
It is divided row wise.
And we can decide any logic to implement on which basis we have to put data in which shard.
So whenever a request comes between S and p it will go to that particular shard.
Vertical sharding.
What does vertical sharding say column wise and table.
All right.
Suppose that there are ten columns in it from C1 to C10.
So now I have sharded it and divided it into two tables from C1 to C5.
I put it here and from C6 to C10 I put it here.
All right.
So it is divided column wise.
All right.
So generally horizontal sharding is better but it also depends.
Vertical sharding can also be done if it fulfills your requirement.
But it is divided column wise.
But it contains all the rows.
So now what is the problem in sharding here.
All right.
There are drawbacks also.
What is the drawback.
Suppose for example what is the drawback of sharding.
Suppose that's whose name is very much.
All will go to shard t one.
So short T one will fill up very quickly.
So I will have to shard it again.
I will have to shard sort it into smaller parts that I am dividing 81 so this is 81 short one, then
21, and this is 81, another short two.
All right.
And this can be sharded more.
So you understood sharding can also form a tree from tree one that first I divided it.
Then I can divide it again.
So how much sharding can be done.
So this is a drawback.
And what is the other drawback.
Suppose now the rows are divided right.
So now sometimes I might need to join them.
So now I won't be able to join.
All right.
So what do we say in this.
We can solve it by denormalization denormalize it so that you can avoid the join.
All right.
And this problem of forming a tree how to shard it.
Again we solve it with consistent hashing.
You must have heard the name right.
Consistent hashing.
So this itself is a very big topic I will cover it in the next step.
But I hope you understood sharding, how sharding is done.
All right.
And with this, with the last database scaling in nine steps, you have made a scalable system from
zero to millions of users.
I hope it would be like you understood well how to approach it.
And what is important in this is that Ken is very, very important.
All right.
Here why messaging is very important.
Database scaling is very important.
Cash is important.
Database replication master slave is very important.
You see every important topic is covered in this.
You have to read it.
So if guys you have even a little doubt feel free to ping me.
All right.
You can discuss it more, but I hope this would be helpful for you in the interview because most commonly
asked questions are here.
And.
Okay guys thank you and have a good day.
Bye.
