# Design Tic-Tac-Toe Game

They said welcome back.
And today we are going to do low level design of tic tac toe.
If you are experienced or fresher, this is the most simplest level which we can get in an interview.
Okay, so let's start without wasting any time.
So let's understand about the game and its rules.
So tic tac toe we all we have played a lot right.
So it's a generally a three by three.
We have a matrix and it's a two player game.
And one player.
We assign a symbol let's say cross and another we have assign let's say circle.
So in this one the we each player takes a turn one by one and places their symbol onto this grid three
by three grid.
And the winner is whichever player got their symbol either on a full row or column or diagonal.
Okay, so that's what I have written here.
It's a simple two player paper and pencil game.
We have all played it.
Each player select a piece before the game player takes turn, placing it on the three by three grid.
A player wins by placing three of its pieces in a row, column, or diagonals.
Okay, and the game ends when a player wins or when all the grid cells are filled.
So when all the grid cells are filled, it is generally a tie or draw.
Okay, so very simple game.
I think we are all in line like how we generally play this game.
Okay, so what are the objects involved by understanding this flow.
What about the game which we have understood.
So the first object we can think of is a playing piece right.
So we have this right x o.
Let's say in future we can give more option that you can play with this symbol or this symbol Or more.
Okay.
And we can discuss with the interviewer that whether each symbol can have their own behavior or not.
Like different colors.
Right.
Different behavior.
Okay.
Rendering logic.
Different rendering logic.
So depending on that, we can either have a playing piece as an object.
Or we can also have an enum.
Okay.
Let's say interviewer say that yes.
Make it extensible so that we should be able to support more different types different piece type.
Let's say dollar triangle more different piece type.
Also they can have different behavior also like color.
In that case this could be one object.
Another object we can see is this board.
Okay.
And we should be make it extensible that today we can play it with three by three let's say.
if interviewers say that, yes, we can also extend it, let's say 4x4.
So that's why our board should be extensible.
So we have one more object called board.
And the third object which we can see from this flow is our player.
Okay.
So we have the third object player.
So with this flow we can easily identify these three objects which are involved in this game.
Let's go one by one in the construction of the UML diagram.
And in parallelly we will also see the code of it so that it becomes super clear.
The first is the playing piece.
I already told you that if interviewer says that no, let's keep it very simple.
Only, uh, there is no future requirement of different color, different, uh, rendering logic, anything.
Then we can simply have an enum.
We don't need this playing piece object itself, But we making it extensible.
I am creating a playing piece object here and I have multiple child classes like one is X, another
is O.
In future we can have, let's say one for dollar.
This only makes sense when each one of it can have different behavior.
Okay, so I have a playing piece let's say abstract class.
And here I have a piece type.
So piece X will fill it up with this x piece type is x.
Playing piece O will fill it.
This piece type with O.
Similarly dollar will fill it with dollar.
And if interviewer says that yes, in future they can have different behavior like color, then this
structure makes sense.
Parent child.
Okay, so that each one can have their own behavior like different color, different rendering logic.
What?
Interviewer says again, no, let it just symbol okay then even the enum is sufficient.
So you got it when we just want only enum.
And when this parent child relationship is important.
When each piece can have their own behavior then this hierarchy parent child hierarchy is very important.
Okay.
So here if you see I have a playing piece class and here I have a piece type okay.
And from this constructor this piece type I am just assigning.
So there are currently two child classes.
One is x and another is O.
So in the x one whenever we will create an object of it.
So it will just assign its piece type what is its x.
Similarly the circle one or oh one.
Whenever we will create an object of this playing piece.
Oh, it will assign its symbol, which is this one.
Oh, okay.
So this is clear.
So we have created the first object.
Now let's create a board okay.
So what is board is.
So here in this board we have a n by n matrix okay.
So first we needed size.
So board needs size so that we can specify the board whether you want three by 3 or 4 by four etc..
Okay.
So that's why I have a board class where I have first defined size.
Which board the board size which you want.
Okay.
Now once we have defined the size which we want.
Now see this board is nothing but a 2D matrix.
Right.
And what are the value of this 2D matrix is nothing but a playing piece here.
We will gonna have this playing piece Peace cross.
Oh okay.
So this is an 2D matrix of what playing piece.
Okay.
So that's why I have a playing piece 2D matrix.
So that's why the board has a relationship with playing piece.
Also if you see that we can have multiple methods which we can add, one important method is add piece.
So whenever a board support board understand this matrix okay.
Nobody else understand this matrix.
So whenever any player need to put any piece, let's say I want to put a piece x at one comma one.
So it will pass this to this method at piece and board will add it here Okay.
So both understand this matrix.
And whichever want to add a piece onto this matrix they will invoke this method.
Add piece method.
Okay.
So this one is important.
So this is very very simplistic board we have.
So we have uh size.
And we whatever the size IT user will provide us, we will create a matrix for that one.
And that matrix can hold playing piece object.
Okay.
Let's see that.
So board here.
So size and the playing piece.
So whenever the board we will create in the constructor we will give the size okay.
And with that size whatever it is given we will create a board with that one new playing piece.
And for that size 2D matrix size we will create initialize this board.
Okay.
And this add piece.
Okay.
So in the add piece method this is very simple method like I am getting row column and the playing piece
which I want to the piece which I want to store it at the row and column.
So I am simply checking if on a board, if row and column is not equals to null means there is.
Let's say you have a playing piece.
Oh, and you want to store it at one comma one and already piece x is already there.
So currently it's not null means some piece is already present.
You can't, uh, save this.
You can't put another piece on top of it.
So that's why I'm returning.
False.
But if there is a space, I am initializing it.
Let's say you have given zero comma one.
So means at zero comma one.
No, no other pieces there.
So at this row and column of a board, we are restoring this piece.
Okay.
And returning the true.
Yes.
I am able to add the piece properly.
If not, you are returning false.
You are not able to add the piece.
Okay.
Very simple method.
So our board is also done.
Now the third object which we have think of as player.
So player is have two properties.
Generally a name.
What is the name of the player.
That's all we wanted.
And also when we create a player we want it to choose one symbol.
So that's why we it the player also has playing piece whether it is playing with either X or O or we
can have different.
Right.
So whatever the piece which player is choosing we are assigning.
We are attaching this with the player.
So player also has playing piece.
Okay, so here I am creating a player.
Player has only two things.
Name.
So whenever we create a player we will give it a name of a player and also the piece which it is playing
with.
Okay.
So player is also done.
So here this is also done.
Now we all the objects which we have think of is done.
Now all we want is orchestrator.
So that is our tic tac toe game class okay so here if you see that.
We can multiple player play with this game.
Right.
So two players can play with this game.
So that's where I am using currently DK okay.
So with this DK let's say either you can also have let's just say this game is very specific for two
players right.
You can have player A and player B two variables.
Or generally I feel comfortable with this DK.
Let's say player one, player two.
And whenever player one takes its turn, I will remove it from the start and put it at the back.
So with the DK, you can easily remove from the front and put it at the back once its turn is over so
that, uh, they can keep on alternatively playing the game.
Okay.
And it's a collection so we can add two players into it.
Okay.
So we can have a list of player.
And also for the game we also have a board.
So tic tac toe game has list of player.
So it has a relationship with the player.
Also it has a board.
So that's all you wanted.
Okay.
And with this two we can start the game and tic tac toe game I am adding these two methods initialize
game and start game.
So here, if you see in the tic tac toe game, I have a DK of a player.
So where in which I will put two players and I.
All I need is board.
If these two things I can initialize and start the game.
So let's first see.
Now let me start the game.
Then I will show you the complete flow.
Okay, so let me run the code first.
So I'm running it.
So this is the tic tac toe game.
So player one please enter row comma column.
So let's say player one is putting into one.
Here one comma one.
So at one comma one player one symbol is entered.
Player two please enter row and column.
Let's say it put zero comma zero.
Okay.
Again player one let's say it put uh row Rogue column.
Right?
So it put row one.
Zero column.
So it also came player two.
Let's say it want to run at it.
Want to run at two comma zero.
Okay.
Now player one can easily win by putting it the symbol at here.
So it won.
It is keeping it at row one.
Second game winner is player one okay.
So this is a very simple game.
Again there could be a lot of validation we want to add.
We can easily add the validation okay.
That is a business logic.
There might be many validation is missing into this code.
We can add it but the main focus is on the design okay.
So with this we can easily create the game.
Now here if you see the first thing I am creating a game from the main class.
Let's say I'm creating a game.
Tic tac toe game equals to new tic tac toe game.
So I am creating an object of this.
Okay, once I got an object of this, what I am doing is first initializing the game.
So I am invoking this initialize game method.
Now in the initialize, what I am doing is I am first creating piece x and piece o.
So I created two piece.
I created one piece x and one piece o.
So this two is created first.
Then I created a new player player one and assign it the cross piece.
So this one I assigned it to player one and I created a new player.
Give it a name player two and assign it a circle piece.
Okay, so two players I have created and added it to the list.
And you know that linked list is an implementation of dequeue.
So I can remove it from the front and also put it at the end.
So these are my two players.
And these two players are into my P1 and P2.
First I put player one and then player two.
And also I created a game new board three.
So what it will do is it will create a playing piece three by three.
So it created a board of three by three.
So this initialization is happened.
Okay.
After that from main what I am calling is game dot start game.
So whatever the tic tac toe object I had right from that.
Now I am working start game.
Now when I am starting the game.
So see what is happening.
I am iterating till I don't see any winner.
So you can say that this is mostly an orchestrator class.
Okay.
And start game is also kind of orchestrating the complete game.
So I am iterating.
I am continuing this game till I don't see any winner.
So currently no winner is true means there is no winner.
So let's play the game.
Okay.
So first thing first, remove the player whose turn is and also put the player in the list back.
So first thing I'm doing is from the list I remove the first player.
So this I'm removing the first player.
Hey P1 your turn.
So I'm removing you from the front okay.
Get the free space from the board.
So here see this is just my logic.
You can have a different logic to determine whether are there any free space or not okay, so for now
currently I am I added one method into the board here.
Free space check there I'm just checking.
Is there any space left to put the piece or not?
If no means this is already a tie means there is no space.
This player cannot put a piece anywhere because all filled up.
So that's what.
So I'm checking get free cell.
So here I'm just checking iterating all cell one by one.
I'm checking if there any cell left in the board okay.
So this is just to determine if yes if there is any empty then I will proceed it.
If there is no empty space I am saying no winner equals to false.
I'm just terminating this while condition and ultimately return tie.
But now let's say that free space is there.
Yeah.
So let's free spaces there.
This is currently we have just started the game.
So yeah there is a free space.
So it will go here.
Now it will read the user input here.
Player one.
So what is the current player?
This is our current player right?
This is our current player.
We have removed it right.
This one please enter row and column.
So it put let's say one comma one.
So.
So we have read it.
We have put input row and input column what the user current player has entered.
Now we are calling the add piece.
We are calling this method here at this row.
And at this column add the piece.
So let's say it has given one comma one.
So I already showed you this method.
If there is already a piece on that row and column which current user has selected, it will return
false.
Otherwise it will add it and return true.
So currently there is no piece, so it will add the playing piece into it.
Okay.
It's a valid move.
Yes, it's a valid move.
We have all added that piece and returned.
True.
But if there is already a piece so it will return false.
And it will.
We will ask.
Hey!
Incorrect position chosen.
Try again and we again put the player into the first.
Let's say there is already X on it.
And now this player one choose.
Hey again, put on one comma one.
So would you be able to put it.
No.
There is already a piece present here.
So at peace will return false.
And we will ask that incorrect position.
And we again add the player one back into the front.
So we removed it right.
We again added so that in the next while loop run it.
We will ask again.
Player one.
Pick the next row and column.
Okay.
Now let's say that yes, currently we have started first.
So yeah there was a valid move.
So we have added a proper playing piece into one comma one.
And since it's a valid move, we add the player at last.
So now player one we have added at last.
Okay, now after that I am checking for winner.
So in checking for winner, what I am doing is I am just checking the row, checking the column, checking
diagonally and nt diagonally.
Okay, so whatever the row and column user has chosen.
So I am checking this row checking this column.
Checking this diagonals okay.
If let's say row this row this row has all x symbol x symbol x or not, then this column has all symbol
x or x or not.
Okay.
So that's what I am just checking I'm checking the row one by one I one, I am checking each row that
it is matching with the piece type current user piece type x or not.
Okay, if it is not, I am returning row match equals to false.
Okay means currently it's not a winner okay, but any either row, column, diagonal or antidiagonal.
If any of them is all true, then we can return true itself.
Yes, it's a winner, any one of them.
That's why I'm using or any one of them has all the symbols of this player.
Then we will return true.
Okay, so currently it's a winner.
No, currently it's only put at here, so it's not a winner.
So what would happen is.
The while loop continues.
So currently there is no winner.
Now player dot remove first.
So now who is at the first player two.
So it will remove it.
So this will become our current player.
So we are just printing the board.
And after that we are getting a free cell if there is any free cell available.
Yes we are continuing the game.
Otherwise we will stop the game.
Yes there are free cell available.
So we are asking hey player two, enter row and column.
Let's say player two says that zero comma one.
So it will put what it will do.
It will read it okay.
And then it will try to add the piece calling the board.
So from this game we are calling the board at piece okay.
At zero comma one there is no piece already added.
So it will add it and return true.
And yes it's a valid move it.
Since it's a valid move, we will accept that move and put the player at end.
So player two now come at end also.
Now I'm checking Is it now a winner?
So after he has put a valid move, can it become a winner?
So I will check its row, its column and if diagonally required.
Okay.
So if it is not a winner again continue.
And this game goes on okay.
Now I think you got it right.
So this is very simple.
Like that's all this class act as an orchestrator.
This class act as an orchestrator okay.
And this start game has all the logic like how this game should behave and how this objects need to
be used together.
Okay.
Very simple game.
Uh, I have already pushed to the grid.
You can check it out for the code.
Yes, there could be some validations.
We can add more that hey, what if the user has selected five comma five, but our matrix is three comma
three?
We can add certain business logic that hey invalid move.
Okay.
So again I'm saying there could be a validation missing.
But that's not our core intention to have a proper business logic here.
Our core intention is to come up with all the classes, objects, their relationship, so that we can
have a working extensible this game.
Okay, I hope it is clear.
Try to practice it with your hand and you will get it like it.
Become your intuition.
Like what?
All objects I have to create.
What is the relationship, right?
So practice more with your hand and slowly the intuition will get built up.
Okay, if there is any doubt, let me know in the comment section we can discuss further.
Okay guys.
Bye.
