

=== JAVA from Basics to Advanced ===


--- OOPs Concept in Java - Part1 | 4 Pillars of Object Oriented Programming ---

Ops fundamentals.
So this is a very, very basics right.
What is ops programming even if somebody knows Python right.
I think Python is also a ops oriented language.
Right.
So this is you can say that you will find some similarities.
But this fundamental is from Java perspective they're slightly changes.
Right.
So this is from the total perspective of Java.
All the syntax which I will tell you everything is from the perspective of Java okay.
So what we are going to cover today.
So I will cover is overview of the ops.
What is ops objects classes, pillars of ops.
This is very very important from the learning perspective base.
Plus your interview question, I will tell you what kind of interview questions generally happen on
this one.
Right.
So but remember that this is the most important, uh, question.
Then we have relationship.
So as you might already know that, uh.
Low level design, right?
Low level design has basics.
You should have oops knowledge.
So it's all about is the has a relationship right.
So you can say that it's a fundamental of everything whether you learn Java right.
And whether you go through an object oriented principles and all these things.
So this is the base class for all.
So let's move to the this thing.
Oops.
Overview.
So as everybody knows that oops stands for object oriented programming as the name itself says that
it's oriented toward what object.
So everything you have to think from an object perspective, if any.
Let's say you get any project, any project.
Hey, can you design this?
Hey, let's say after you joining the industry, you get any project.
So all you have to understand is like, what are all the objects present in whatever you are tasks you
are doing?
That's why it is called object oriented.
Everything revolves around objects.
So what does it objects?
Now when we say that everything objects revolves around objects.
So when we say what does it objects means?
It's a real world entity like car, bike, atm, anything.
And when you say that real world entity, you can ask me a question right here.
What does it mean by real world entity.
Right.
So see, any real world entity has two things.
And if there is any doubt, please, uh, stop me and ask the question, guys.
So real world, every real world entity has two things, right.
So what does this two things it has.
Uh, so one you have is, uh, you know, that we have called behavior.
One is called behavior and another is called functionality.
So, so every object has two things.
One is what is your.
Behavior behavior.
We also known as functionality.
And another thing it is called properties.
Properties.
Right.
So any object has two things I will tell you about this when we will go about the objects.
But understand this when you will consider any real world entity which has this two things.
They are known as real world entity.
And we will go more detail into this.
How you will identify objects.
So those who are coming from C background right.
They know that it is a procedural programming.
Right now when we are talking about ops.
So this is the only the difference between procedural programming.
So you can say that all the advantages of objects generally which are missing in procedural.
So here procedural what does procedural happen is so you get one task.
So let's say Piyush got task one.
So what you will do is it will create function one.
It will add some task tasks function to add some tasks and if it want to pass some data, it will pass
some data here and it will complete everything.
So it just divided into parts called functions and it will pass the data whatever is required from one
function to another.
Right.
So that is generally a procedural programming just functions right.
It does not provide a proper way to hide data.
So it sends the data.
This can also change it right.
So they are very tightly coupled.
So what is this thing is they are very tight coupled.
When I say tight coupled what does tight coupled means.
So you have one function which creates the object let's say.
Or you can say that creates a variable.
Right.
And you pass that reference to another, or you pass that variable to another so that objects or whatever
that variable you have created, it's moving around one function to another.
And what other functions are doing with it.
It is changing it and then using it function.
Those who created it there doesn't have any information about it.
Right?
So there are very tight couple because they are freely passing the data.
There is no way to hide the data, right?
So what I say that it give importance to function over data, procedure programming give importance
to function it just focus on creating a function, but it doesn't focus on the data.
And data moves freely from one function to another, from another function to another.
Right?
And anybody can change it.
No control over that.
Right?
So these are some of the advantages of overloading inheritance which is missing in procedural right.
Code reusability not present.
I will tell you how we can achieve in oops.
But in one liner you should understand what is procedural procedural focus on functions, not on data.
Oops.
The biggest thing is it provide data.
Hiding.
What it will do is it will bind your function and data.
So this function will work on this data, right?
And it will bind it together so that it has the full control over it.
Who is who is going to manipulate it?
They know that okay.
This function is going to manipulate this data.
If you want this data, it will write another function.
Here you call this function and you will get the data.
So this class has the full control.
So that's why it says that object provide data hiding give importance to data.
And in procedural it give importance to function.
It's a very basic as of now.
But you will get understand of this when I say that how it hide and all you will learn it.
But till now it's clear, right?
What is procedural and ops.
So sometime the difference they may ask also.
Okay so now let's move ahead.
Very, very basic of first thing is objects and classes.
What is objects and what is classes?
I told you that objects are the real world entity which has two things properties and behavior.
Behavior is also known as function and the properties properties are known as state.
So example see this example.
So here if you see that dog is an object.
Why?
Why dog is an object.
Because it has these two properties.
The one is its properties or state.
So anything if you look and tell what are its color is black.
Its height is at least this.
So any properties of any real world entity, you can tell by just looking at it, right.
These are known as properties or state like okay, if the dog is there, at least you can tell what
it is color, what is its breed age?
You might be you can approach, let's say six years younger or it's an older dog.
So these are known as properties, which you can just tell by observer observing that object.
Right.
So if you can give some properties of a real world entity just by observing, those are known as properties
or state, what are the second thing object has is behavior or function.
So what are the behavior of a dog?
Behavior of a dog is bark, sleep eat, etc..
So these are the functions which dogs perform right?
So that's why dog is considered as object.
Because we can have this two things inside an object.
Right.
Properties which we can like tell by just looking and the behavior which the functionality it performs.
Similarly, if I tell you car car is an object.
Why?
Why car is an object?
Because it has two things.
First thing is all the properties, which we can tell by just looking at this like what?
Okay, what is the brand, what is the type, what is the color.
So these are all considered as its properties right.
And what is the behavior?
Apply brake drive increase speed etc..
These are all the functionalities.
So you got it.
So object has every object.
Every object should have this two things or I won't say that should it should be must have this two
things okay.
That's where we will call as an object.
Now you can ask me hey what is class then.
So class is like it's a blueprint.
It's a blueprint of an object.
Or you can say that skeleton.
Right.
So I told you that object has these two things.
So where we will write these two things.
So in class you write these two things and create an object out of it.
Right.
So I'll tell you how to create an object.
A class is required.
Right.
So from class object can be created.
So class is considered as a blueprint or template which from which objects can be created.
So let's say I have a class A I will write its properties.
I will write its properties and I will write its behavior.
And you know, write a object has two things.
So properties and behavior.
I'll define it here in the class.
So that's why class is known as template.
Right now we can create an object out of it.
We can create an object out of it.
And we can create as many as Object.
Object one.
Object two.
I will tell you how, but from this class I can create so many objects.
So let's understand the definition of classes.
Classes provide the template or the blueprint from which object can be created.
From one class we can create multiple objects.
And what is the keyword for creating a class is this one is small.
So now let's see.
I'll tell you how to create it.
Let's create one normal simple class.
Let's say I'm creating a class.
Let's say I'm creating a class student.
I'm creating a class student.
So what are the properties of a student.
Can you tell me like what are the properties of a student.
Right.
Properties is let's say are age age of a student right.
And we can also tell it's like, okay, this is the properties.
Let's say it's an age address.
Or I would say that it's a instead of integer.
It should be a string right.
There should be a string.
It's address.
These are all the student properties identification age address.
Right.
So there could be many.
So these are known as data variables.
These are known as data variables.
So all the properties of a student is known as data variables.
Now what are the functionalities of a student.
Right.
So the functionalities of a student could be what it's perform.
Let's say I can have functionalities.
Update.
Update address.
So functionality is like a function.
So this is one function.
What is function task is to update the address.
So let's say today this student lives in a certain area.
Uh let's say uh anything in Jaipur Rajasthan.
But now it's shifted to another state.
So we can update this.
It can update this.
So update address is just a function or behavior which works on this data.
So this method.
So this is known as data method.
Data method.
So data methods or which we earlier calling functions work on data variables.
So any modification any you want to get and all you can use through the function.
So let's say if anybody wants this Hey, I want an age so you can have like here getter and setter.
So you can have like get age.
And what it will do is it will return age.
So.
Right.
So we can write any function.
This is all known as data methods which will work on this.
Ultimately this data variables which is known as properties.
Right.
So you understand this is a class.
So class has two things data variables which is nothing but a properties and the functions which is
nothing but a method.
And method works on a data variables.
Okay.
Now I told you that objects can be created out of it.
Right?
So objects can be created like now how how the objects will be created.
See this.
So class name student right.
Let's say I'm wanting to create an engineering student.
So I'll create let's say engineering Student equals to new class name student.
Right.
So here, if you see that I don't go much into this syntax as of now, I'll tell you a syntax.
But I want you to tell you from this class we can create so many objects.
So here, if you see that this is the one way of creating an object, which I will tell you in deep,
maybe in the next session.
So here, if you see that with this new keyword this is a keyword, right.
So with this new keyword I created a new object.
I created an engineering student.
Similarly, from this one I can create, let's say MBA student.
MBA student equals to new student new student.
So this is MBA student.
Similarly I can say that, uh, another CA student CS student.
So if you see that just from this class, I created so many students.
Right.
And even if you take that in a one class itself, there are hundreds of students.
So you can say that student one, student two, student three and just change age, address and all
these things.
Right.
So each student each student has their own properties.
Right.
So here if you see that what will.
So now now I created two two objects.
Engineering student MBA student out of which new student this class.
Right.
So how it would be so it let's say this is object one which is engineering student engineering student.
So it has its own properties like what is the age.
So let's say age.
So let's say it set its property like age dot set like I have a get right.
I can also put one set method set age and in the set age I can set this like let's say put a set age
and address.
So it has its own.
It has its own value.
Let's say it here.
Age set is 23.
Address.
Its set is something x, y, z and it has its own method.
Also update address, get age, set age or whatever.
So this object which we created has all the data variables and data methods and it can have its own
values.
Similarly the other object which we created MBA student MBA student.
Also we created from the same class new student.
Right.
So it also has the same data variables data methods.
So it also has age.
Maybe it can add its own age.
Let's say at 25 and its own address.
Right?
Maybe it's at ABC.
Something, right.
And its own data variables update address.
Get a set age.
So if you see that each object, her age object, each object has both data variables, data methods
and they can have set their own values whichever they want.
Till now, it's clear or not.
What is class?
What is object?
So now we are done with classes and objects.
Now let's move forward to the first pillar of oops.
And till now, don't worry about anything like uh, all the keywords.
New keyword class.
We will come more in depth, but classes and object is important to tell because I need to, uh, need
those into this explaining the four pillar of oops.
So now understand what is the question comes in an interview like this is not just a base of ops but
also a very popular interview question.
The question generally comes is can you explain the ops fundamental like you are explaining to a 14
year old child?
So you should be clear with the ops fundamental in such a clarity that you should come up with a very
simple example which a child can understand.
Don't use any jargons, right?
So understand it properly and see that you are relating with the real world.
Examples.
If interview says that hey, come up with some certain examples.
Explain me that even a child can understand, right?
So let's see with that.
So I'll try to explain in that manner and see that if it helps.
And you can come up with different examples of this one.
So first filter pillar of ops, what is known as data abstraction.
Data abstraction is data abstraction.
So suppose that I'll come to the definition second.
First understand with an example.
Take an example of a car and you have a brake pedal.
And if you press it, if you press the brake pedal, what will happen?
The car speed will reduce.
But how it reduce?
Did you know that internally what had happened?
You don't know it because this is abstracted to us.
We all care about what we have to do, how it happened, that's not important to us.
So that's why the definition says that it hides the internal implementation and shows only the essential
functionality to the user.
So it shows only the essential functionality.
What is the essential functionality in terms of car brake pedal?
Press me.
If I press it, the car speed will reduce.
But how?
Internal implementation is hidden, I don't know.
Let's say another example.
Cell phone.
How call is made.
You don't know.
You just say that.
Okay.
Once you dial the number and press green button, a call has been made.
But how call has been made.
Do you know that?
No.
It's obstructed to us.
We don't know how the data transfer to one and another.
We don't know how it transfer to the network, how it reached to the other person we don't know.
We all know is if you press the green button after dialing the number, the call will be made.
So we only know the essential feature which is given to us, but all the internal implementation is
hidden from us.
So this is known as abstraction and how we can achieve it through interface and abstract classes.
You will get this, uh, more detail into the next chapter where we deep more into this.
But I will give you a quick highlight of this interface, right?
But more in depth will come into the next session where we will go one level deeper.
So as a part of the first pillar, data abstraction, you should know that what data abstraction is,
data abstraction is like only exposing the essential feature and hide the implementation.
What are the advantages of data abstraction?
Advantage of data abstraction is security and confidentiality.
So let's take this example.
So guys don't go much about the keywords and in depth.
We will go slowly in depth.
But see I'm just telling you how we can achieve this data abstraction.
So I told you that it can be achieved through interface and abstraction.
So I am creating an interface.
So let's say I created an interface let's say car.
Okay.
So this is an interface I created.
A car has so many features which are has.
But I want to expose let's say, uh.
Uh, I can create public, uh, apply brake.
Apply brake.
This is the method I want to expose.
Right.
But user not aware.
Like, okay, if I apply the brake of a car, what will happen I don't know.
So all its implementation can I can put it is like here.
So here I can create a class.
I'll tell you about this.
Don't worry about this.
What happening?
I all want you to focus in data abstraction.
How we are doing a data abstraction.
Understand those interface and the keyword which you are seeing.
Little bit.
Keep it aside.
Just see.
Keep in your back of the mind.
When we use it you will see.
Ah yes I saw that somewhere, right.
So now let's say I will say that car implementation.
So all the interface right.
It just provide a like method.
We have to implement it like well, so it has to implement this interface car.
And what it will do is all the methods.
It will now implement it.
So public apply brake.
Now even for user it is just simple apply brake.
But here it is doing so many things.
Uh, when we apply the brake it will do so many things here.
Uh step do step one do.
Step two.
Step three.
Step four.
Step five.
And then ultimately speed got reduced.
The outcome of this is that speed got reduced right.
So step one, step two, step three, step four.
Uh, because there might be so many in, uh, engine work, uh, tools work.
We don't know inside what car happen, happened.
But what my intention is to tell you that user don't know this functionality.
All user be told this as okay for car you have apply brake or you can have one more thing that press
uh you can say that press accelerator.
So user know that if I press it speed will increase.
Or you can say that press horn button.
So I just expose what user is required in a car.
I all expose this.
So now user has a car object.
It can apply brake press accelerator press horn, turn on the headlights.
All these things it can do.
But the implementation I am hiding it from it.
So right when he just call this method press apply brake internally it's doing step one, step two,
step three, step four, step five.
And ultimately the outcome is speed got reduced.
So you know that uh, so from a user perspective it just calling this method apply break.
And this all implementation is hybrid.
How how it will happening.
He doesn't know he's just applying the break.
So that's why it is called as data abstraction.
So this is the first pillar.
Understood.
Any doubts?
Shall I proceed?
Yes.
Yeah.
So you are saying, like we are able to hide some functionality from user.
So my question is what is the need?
Why are we doing that.
Even if we tell them how to apply break, it won't cause any harm, right?
Like what is the issue here?
Like if we not hide, like, what is the importance if we don't know?
Yeah.
So see this is the importance is like the advantage I would say that the first thing is bring this confidentiality.
So let's say a car has so many features which let's say you are not I don't want to expose it to you.
So let's say I am the one who created this car and I only want you.
This three features apply brake, press accelerator and press horn.
I only want to expose you this three items only.
But rest of the things I don't want to expose itself, right?
So if you see that through the interface, I only just put this three methods.
Now as a user, you can only call this three methods only.
So one of the reason for this data hiding is confidentiality.
Like you can not add or expose to the user, which he doesn't bother first thing, right?
Let's say there is so many features which can mechanic can do directly like but I don't want to expose
it to user.
So one thing is confidentiality.
You can hide the functionalities from the user with the help of the interface.
Don't add it here.
User won't be able to interact with it.
Right.
So this is the first advantage.
So are you okay with this first advantage.
Like you are in line with me.
Yeah.
What I'm not understanding is like what will happen if we expose, like what breach will happen in that
case?
Okay.
Like if suppose someone is trying to see our internal methods.
Yeah.
Okay.
So the another is things like see if you are exposing this thing.
Right.
There are a lot of thing is client should be now aware of all those things right.
So now let's say if you are let's say let's talk from that perspective that we are exposing this method
to all like everyone now can call directly this one.
And they're well aware of this method.
Okay.
If break applies, let's say this is my client.
This is your Client.
Uh, class, let's say you are the client class and you want to apply a brake.
When you want to apply brake earlier, what you were calling is you were calling this apply brake.
And brake used to apply.
Now, when we say that okay lets user know the functionality, user let it.
So now you can say that hey user know about what to do.
Step one, step two, step three.
So now user has aware of this steps.
Also do we want to expose this steps to the user.
No.
Because how the internal what are you can say that internal uh mechanics or engineering terms how this
internal tools interacted between steps.
Or I am just coming up hypothetically that these are the steps, let's say, uh, yes.
Step one is, uh, less, uh, battery use.
This is the step one.
And I'm just hypothetically because I don't know what the functionality.
So first step is, let's say less battery use and, uh, when less battery use, something will happen.
So less is that stop petrol or diesel usage.
So suddenly it will stop using it so that in something will stop.
So now you know that there are multiple steps when somebody apply a brake, right?
So I don't want user to know all these things.
And another thing is if you don't want if you are saying that what are the disadvantage of it.
Like if you expose it then user has to know so much things and it will get bombarded with the information.
It's just one thing when the when you apply brake you have to do all this stuffs ten steps.
So now user knows all this stuff even though he doesn't care about it, right?
So what we do is we make our code simplified with this data hiding.
So we will tell only to client.
This is only one method.
Apply break.
If you apply it, car will stop.
How?
How will you stop?
You don't have to worry about it.
Leave it to me.
But if you say that.
Okay.
What's the disadvantage?
If user knows all these things, then another thing is client will get bombarded with.
Okay, I have to know about step one, step two, step three, step four.
Right.
And that's this thing will happen.
Yeah.
Also they can mess up with our internal implementation how we have implemented.
Yes.
So correct.
So it's like you can say that it keeps security confidentiality.
And I would say that it simplifies our client code.
Because otherwise client.
I just see I even in the hypothetical I would say that 510 step.
But do you think that in real what how many steps would have happened internally.
So client doesn't bother about all those ten steps, right.
All he wanted is like, hey, apply this apply break.
Something should have happened this.
So this is the input output should come to this client is only aware of this I provide this input.
Give me this output.
Right.
But how you will do it I don't care.
So this kind of data abstraction is we can achieve through interface and abstract which we will see
later.
But at least you should be now in proper understanding.
What is abstraction and what are the different examples you can yourself come up with?
Okay.
Shall I move forward?
Yeah okay.
Let's see the second pillar.
Second pillar is data encapsulation.
Hey, it looks very familiar, right?
Data abstraction.
Data encapsulation.
Now let's say that it is also known as data hiding, right?
So now what we are saying is we created a class, let's say class A right.
And it has properties.
What properties is known as data members data variables or data members data members data variables.
And it also has functionality.
Functionality is known as data methods.
Nothing but methods which work on this one.
So encapsulation.
What does it say that bundles the data?
Bundle the data and the code working on the data?
So this class has two things variable and the functions which work on this variable right.
So what this class is doing, this class is doing data encapsulation.
Right.
It bundles the data and the functions which operate on this data right into a single unit.
We can also call this as data hiding.
So this is actually hiding the data.
I will tell you how it hiding the data.
So here before going further let me tell you how it hides the data.
So now we know that class.
Let's say I created a class called uh, let's say car.
I'm the same example or let's say some another example.
I would say that uh, uh, let's say uh, some cool example, let's say animal, some dog.
This is one simple example, right?
So what are the data variable or data members.
Or you can say that properties let's say is uh color.
Uh.
So let's say I have taken a string.
What is the color?
So this is data member or data variable, right.
And I have certain method I told you.
Right.
We can update this through data methods which can work on this method.
So it's let's say get color get dog color.
So this is one method which will return simply somebody call this it will return okay.
This is the color actually.
So this is returning what string.
And similarly I would said set color.
We can work on the variable through this.
So what is the color we are getting let's say color variable.
And let's say this Us dot color equals to color.
Don't worry about this keyword, this dot class.
Right.
I will all come to this.
So currently my motto to tell you is what is data encapsulation?
This keyword is.
In the next class I will tell you all the keywords why it is required.
But currently keep all these keywords into the back of mind that yes, this dot and all this thing,
but not needed as of now.
Now understand that how it is doing encapsulation.
So I have a data member color and I have a data methods which work on this variable.
So I have let's say get method.
If somebody calls this method it will return the color right.
If somebody want to change the color right it can call this let's say pass blue color.
So it will set it blue.
So let's say I am creating an object.
Let's say I am creating an object dog.
Object dog.
I'm creating an object.
Let's say Rottweiler, Rottweiler, Rottweiler is one of the dog breed.
Let's say I'm creating an object through new.
So now one object is created Rottweiler.
Now I would say that here Rottweiler dot, this is an object and this is how we call it through in the
Java dot.
But don't worry, I am setting the color set color.
Let's say I set the color black.
Right.
So now what will happen is you know that the object is Rottweiler.
It is created from this class.
So this class has color object color variable and methods get and set get and set get color set color.
It has two methods and this one.
And now what?
I have set the color black.
So currently color is set to black.
Okay.
So this is how objects will now have the information.
But if you see that what has happened we have seen that we have encapsulated this info both info data
member which is known as variables and the functions which work on this together into a single class.
If anybody wants to change this color, they can call this method right.
If anybody want this variable, they can call this method.
So this class has the full control over this members through its functions.
That's why it is known as encapsulation means bundles the data and the code working on that data into
a single unit.
So now in Java oops.
Because of this classes.
Because of this classes, we bundle the the data and the functions together into a single class that
acts as a single unit, right?
And it is also known as data hiding.
Like we have hide our data.
You want certain data variables call our function and through that you can get it.
But you are not.
We can allow, but we are saying that we have full control over data.
It brings control, it brings control.
And that's why it says that with the help of this, we can bring loosely coupled code.
If you remember the start procedural programming, it data moves freely like if you have written ten
function function one, function two, function three.
It created data one.
Definitely.
Function two can also change the data same data one because it passes it because data moves freely from
all over the code.
Anybody can change it.
There is no control over data.
But now here, because of data encapsulation, this class takes the ownership.
Okay.
These are the functions available.
Use this function to update the variable so it has the full control.
We can bring control.
And that's why I say that loosely coupled like everyone knows that now okay.
Loosely coupled is okay now.
They are not tightly related to each other.
Highly tightly coupled means let's say this is class one.
This is class two right?
And there is data one.
It is also changing it.
Data one also it is changing it.
So they are very tightly covered.
If something change here this also get impacted.
So these are very tightly coupled code.
And this is not acceptable into the industry.
We have to develop a loosely coupled code means what does loosely coupled code means you have class
one.
Class two.
If something got changed here, they should not get impacted.
They should work as an independent different classes.
So data creating a different classes and putting the variables members appropriately right.
Helps you to bring the loosely coupled control.
And it will bring a control better control on our code.
Understood it like so.
You can add all the variables which are logically you can say that related into the same class, so
that all these variables, it has full control over it.
Data should not move freely it we can keep it in under one class.
Any doubts?
Uh, this encapsulation clear?
Okay.
Um, one question here.
Like, suppose I create a class called inside that there is a strange color.
And suppose I create a new class.
Uh, cat, suppose.
And I want to access that color of dog inside this.
Definitely.
You can do so.
How you can do is first you need an object of this one.
As you know, that class is just a skeleton.
So I told you that object has ultimately the data.
This is just a skeleton.
And this real object has the values.
So first you need to create an object of this from this cat class.
Right.
Let's say uh you create an object like this right.
And now you can call this uh Rottweiler which we created an object Rottweiler dot, you can say that
let's say I want a color, right.
Get dog color.
Rottweiler dot get color.
You will get a color string.
Just take this in a variable.
Now use it whatever you want.
So what I'm asking is like by doing this I am able to access the dog class variable.
So it is like against encapsulation.
No.
So see, getting an information is okay.
But now what full control is in which class.
Anything you wanted of a dog.
So see understand from this, let's, uh, let me, uh, tell you with this way I got your point.
What you're trying to say.
Getting an object, getting an information is required to run any program, so nobody is self sufficient.
Everybody need information from other class to perform certain tasks, right?
Nobody can, uh, have a full functionality.
So getting an information is okay, but who is taking the ownership to that particular information is
what we are talking about.
Let's say I have this data.
Uh, let's say I'm saying that, uh, student Age, uh, courses which he has taken.
Right.
All this information I have.
So let's say one, I would say that I have a class or let's say when we are talking about dog and cat
way itself, let's use the same example so that we don't get diverted.
Okay.
So now you know that, uh, let's say don't worry about this class itself.
So now we are creating a class okay.
Penn.
Class cat.
Okay.
So now in the class.
Class cat, we are saying that.
Okay, by creating a dog object.
So let's say Rottweiler.
I created a new dog object.
And now I am able to create using this object which I created I am able to get the its field.
Get dog color.
Now I store it in some variable that's a color of a dog color, and I do certain perform operation on
top of this color.
Right.
So now your point is that, hey, how come it's a data encapsulation when other class is able to get
the data?
This is your doubt, right?
So see the dog has this as a variable.
Now class says that okay I need this data to perform certain work to perform certain task.
But I cannot take the ownership right to maintain this color.
And whatever the dog property it has.
Right.
Who will take the ownership?
Who will take the who will bundle this data?
Is it, let's say if you don't want, if you don't put in a class, let's say it has certain method.
And will you pass this color as a black, let's say.
Then this is like a this is like a very tight couple, like okay, somebody sending a black color,
like, but this is not an object oriented programming.
It's just like you are passing all the variables, right?
So here just understand from this from a class perspective what does cat need it all cat needed is this
dog color information so that it can perform a certain task, but it cannot take an ownership of this
maintaining this dog related fields.
If there are certain other class, let's say goat, it can also not take ownership of maintaining the
properties of a dog, right?
So only dog class will have the full control over it.
If you want to get the color, call me get dog color.
Then only you will get it.
You want to update it.
Now you can call dot dot update.
So now if you see that this Rottweiler class object which we created right of this one.
It has the full control over it.
So with this method I have the full control over it.
And let's say I created this as a private, so I don't want it to tell.
Now it will confuse.
So this is known as access specifiers access specifier like private public protected right.
So and there is one more called default.
Don't worry about this I wanted to cover in the next session.
So now but as you asked so there are something called private and public.
Let's take this for simple public means.
Anybody can access anybody.
Right.
So it let's say I also call this method public.
Public get doc color right.
So get doc color it can call.
But now let's say I make it private private.
This method is now private.
It will not be able to call because private is just keep into this class itself.
Only within the same method can call each other private.
So don't worry about this one.
But I wanted to tell you that encapsulation means all the variables and the methods are grouped together
in a same class, and it has full control over it and how it controls.
So here.
Let me explain a very simple term.
Now the control part.
But did you get like uh, encapsulation.
What's the definition of encapsulation says.
I got it.
Like you are saying, if there is a color, it will be only modified or accessed via dot class if someone
else want to access, they have to go through that.
Correct.
So that's how we so that's why we are saying that dog class has a full control over it.
Full control over fields through its method.
And there are something called access specifiers.
So this helps them to control more.
So there are four private public protected and default.
So this protected and default I will tell you later.
But let me tell you this thing so that it will clarify all the doubt.
So let's say let's discuss about this two modifiers private protected.
So this modifiers can be used on the data members also data methods also.
So let's say I am using private here.
So if I haven't used anything means it is default right.
I will tell you what the when it is default what will happen.
But I want to tell you let's say I'm Specifically mentioned.
It's a private.
Now, when I mention it's a private.
The class cat class cannot access it like a hey dog when you have this right dog object.
Rottweiler.
Dot.
What is the property name color it cannot access like this.
It can only be accessed via method which is public.
So let's say my data member is private and the method to get this color is public.
So now in another class I am talking.
In another class it created a Rottweiler object.
Let's say it created a Rottweiler object.
It created this Rottweiler object.
Now from this Rottweiler object, it wanted certain data, but how it cannot get the data.
One thing is Rod Wheeler dot.
It directly calls the variable color.
But now if you see that I have made it private.
Private says that data will remain in this class cannot be accessed outside of this class.
So you cannot access from the Cat class.
But here, if you see that the method is public.
So now but I can it is open to do this rod Wheeler dot get dog color.
It can call this method because this is public.
Anybody can call this method.
And inside this method it is returning the color.
So now you see that the what it does.
The dog class has made a full control.
Hey you cannot access the color directly.
You have to call me because I am public.
You can call me and I will return the color only.
But if you want.
Little bit uh, don't want too much harsh.
Let's say you want people to call directly.
The color itself lets you can call it, you can make it public.
Okay.
I will also make it public.
Okay.
Public.
So now cat class will allow able to allow to this directly access this without even calling the methods
okay directly.
It is public.
So I created the Rottweiler object dog object.
And I will say that okay Rottweiler dot get color or color directly this.
So now if you see that the dog class is doing a full control over how the other classes can access its
data variables either directly, either through method or if I both make private.
This is also private.
Other class cannot even either call this or either call this because both are private.
So somebody some method it should have to get this data.
So you got it that using access specifiers and this class it has full control over the data.
Yeah, right.
So, see, don't worry about this private public protected.
But I just want you to a glimpse that with the class inside a class, when you put all the data and
all the functions which operate on this data can have full control, like what other class, how it
can get the data.
So see, everything is all about data.
Push all work on a data.
But it's like how you will access that data.
Who will have that control.
So here the with the help of a class I can control everything like how other class can access the data
if I made public.
Yes, you can access it if I make private.
No.
Inside this class only can have this thing.
If, uh, certain public method is there, you can call that and ask that.
Hey, provide me that data.
So full control is at here in the class.
Got this.
Yeah.
Cool.
So now when you are saying that.
Hey, uh, explain to a 14 year old child data encapsulation.
Just understand that.
I'll explain that we have a capsule, right, of medicine.
So medicine has all the data actually inside the capsule, right.
So this is nothing but a data encapsulation, which we did.
The actual data is present inside of a capsule.
Capsule is just you can say that a cover outside it which is protecting it.
Similarly in data encapsulation class is nothing but a one which actually keeps the data and it is just
protecting it through its access identifiers.
Private public protected default controls it.
Okay, let's move to the third pillar of inheritance, the very, very important one inheritance.
We will cover the third pillar of oops in the next part.
Thank you.

--- OOPs Concept in Java - Part2 | 4 Pillars of Object Oriented Programming ---

Let's move to the third pillar of inheritance.
The very, very important one inheritance.
So now inheritance, the key.
Our parent and we are the inherited from our parent child.
So my parent has let's say capability one.
So child inherit and child has capability.
Let's say something new to.
But since it's a child or it's inherited it also possess this capability.
Also parents can be benefit.
That's nothing but an inheritance capability of a class to inherit properties from the parent class.
So this is a child class.
It has the capability to inherit the properties from the parent.
So parent has let's say parent class has property.
Let's say I have a property called color.
Let's say in a dog color.
Child has, let's say, a property called age.
Data properties, you know, right now data variables.
So now if you see that child also now automatically has color also.
So because it inherit.
So whatever the parent has child will also has child has its own properties age but it also has its
parent.
Also parent has color right.
So ultimately you can also access with child object color.
Also this property is also accessible but opposite is not true.
So if you have parent object you will not be able to access age.
But if you have child object you can access color also parent.
Also, it can inherit both functions and variables so we don't have to write them again in the child
classes.
I told you right?
Whatever the variables and functions, two things a class can have.
This child will also have variable functions.
So child will have all the functions which parent has plus all the variables is parent has.
We don't have to write it again.
It if it inherited from here it can have all this.
But parent doesn't have the one.
Let me tell you with an example.
For example class vehicle I created a vehicle.
A class vehicle can have let's say vehicle had have what all the properties vehicle have is engine.
Let's say I would say that Boolean.
Has engine.
It has this variable.
And let's say it has one function uh let's say a get engine.
It will return this variable has engine.
And this is boolean return type.
I'll tell you about this one.
So let's say this is one normal class A vehicle.
It has what certain one data variable.
It has one function.
A class can have only two things variables and functions.
Right now I told you that inheritance means we are creating a child of this class.
So now what I am creating is kind of this vehicle.
Vehicle as a child class called let's say car.
I want to create this one.
How I can create now I can create another class.
So this is another class car.
Class is car.
How can I inherit.
Inherit can be done through keyword extends.
Don't worry about this.
We'll go more deep.
Extends.
This extends vehicle.
Vehicle.
So now with this extend keyword, we make the child as a we make car as a child of vehicle.
Right.
And I add it, uh.
This thing is in.
What is the CC 800 cc or whatever.
This one.
Or I would say that more is like a type petrol or diesel type, something like this.
Let's say a string, uh, type.
So okay, so now car has its own type, whether it's a or you can say that car type is like a hatchback,
hatchback, SUV sedan.
What is the car type.
So but this is its own variable and it can have its own method.
Also get car type let's say and it will return the car type.
Now what we have done is we have created a vehicle which has its own variable and functions.
And we have created a car.
Car is also now we make it a child of a vehicle through keyword extends.
Right.
So now it becomes a child.
And car has its own variable and functions.
It has its own variable and function car type and get method.
But since car is a child of vehicle, it has its access to all the variable and function it has access
to.
Engine also has engine and this one.
So now let's say if I created a car object how you can create an object.
So let's say I want to create this class object this class.
So car let's say I created an object.
Let's say Swift equals to new is the keyword which help us to create an object of car.
So now I created a car object Swift.
So now I wanted to access Swift Dot I wanted to access if I write get engine.
Jet engine.
Is it a valid or not?
It is a valid because even though jet engine method is not present into the car here, it has only get
car type, get car type but get engine is there?
No, but since car is a child of vehicle.
Vehicle has get engine.
It can access it right.
But now let's say you created a vehicle object.
Let's say vehicle.
My vehicle object equals to new vehicle.
Now vehicle object.
This vehicle object whichever I created dot, let's say I'm creating get car type.
Get car type.
Is it right or not.
No.
Because vehicle is not inherited from car.
It cannot take its properties.
Right.
So it cannot it it doesn't have get car type.
So this it doesn't have any car type so it cannot access it.
Right.
So it can only access its own one, but its child can access it one.
Understood.
This one.
Inheritance.
Right.
So this is known as inheritance.
And there are different types of inheritance.
Single inheritance.
Multi-level, hierarchical and multiple inheritance.
Let me tell you.
Like in a quick manner, what are the different ones?
So inheritance can be achieved through two ways that I will tell you in the next one.
So but here understand the inheritance one the four types of inheritance.
And there is some certain thing called diamond problem which is very important.
So four types of inheritance single single class A.
This is known as class B.
This is single inheritance.
Second is multilevel.
Multi-level is you have class A, second level is your, let's say class B.
Then from class B somebody extended class C it can go on.
So this is known as your multilevel.
Now there is something called.
Hierarchical.
And there is something called another is multiple.
Multiple multiple.
You have class A Class B.
Class C.
It extended from both, which is not allowed in Java.
It might be allowed in C++, but in Java it is not allowed.
I will tell you why.
Right?
So here, uh, and this is one thing called in hierarchical is.
Class A.
Class B inherited from class A.
Class C inherited also from class A right.
But this is not allowed from class A and B a C cannot have it.
This is not allowed.
Right.
Somebody let's say till here it is allowed.
Hierarchical is allowed from one class.
Class B can extend class A.
Class C can extend class A but in the multiple from both the classes this is not allowed.
This is known as diamond problem.
Diamond problem.
So this is not allowed.
There is a way through which we can get this right.
So I told you that with extend it cannot be done.
But through interface we can do it.
I'll tell you later.
But see this.
Why this is not allowed.
This is important to understand this one.
Why this diamond problem is not allowed.
So here let me add a new slide.
So see understand this one.
Very simple to understand it.
But sometime, uh, many candidate get confused why?
Uh, multiple is not allowed.
Class B.
Class C okay.
Example, let's take one example.
Class have had one method.
Let's say get engine simple.
Same example get engine okay.
Let's say class B also has one method.
Get engine same method.
But because it's a different different class, right method can happen.
Now I am creating a class C.
It extends let's say if it present extend from a comma B.
Let's say this is not possible.
But let's say if this is not allowed in Java, so it is not possible.
But let's say if it is, if it is, what is the issue?
Now, I told you that a class child class has access to both parent members and function.
Now let's say I create a class C object.
Uh, class C Object equals to new c.
New c.
Let's say I created a C class object.
This is a c class object equals to new c.
Now if I'm creating object dot get engine.
What it will do.
So now this is a child class object.
This is a child class object.
And I called Get engine.
Now will it call a get engine of class A or get engine of class B?
Which one it will call it will not able to identify hey, which class engine I have to invoke to make
this simple, Java doesn't add it itself.
Right.
So with the extend keyword it cannot be done.
You understand the problem?
Diamond problem.
Yeah.
So there is a confusion.
Which method?
Which method to call because class child class has access to both the one parent class feature no parent,
so it also has access to get engine.
It also has access to get engine.
But when somebody calls a child class C get engine, which one to call now doesn't know.
So this is known as diamond problem.
It is not allowed through interface.
We can allow it through.
Let's say if I create a class now not class interface A, interface B now I created one class C, now
it implements.
So whenever there is an interface right it use implements to extend.
It is also child class.
Now a comma B.
Now this is allowed right.
But how this is allowed we will see later.
But through this one we can do a hack on this one because it will override it override functionality.
So I'll tell you this later.
So I'll keep this like interface.
We will go detail.
Otherwise currently it will confuse you.
But now understand this with the class one.
It is not possible.
Diamond problem cannot be resolved.
But with interface it can be resolved.
Interface.
Also it's a proper child only we can call it as a child member class only.
But with this it can be solved.
But I'll tell you where because first we need to understand the overriding for it.
Okay?
So keep it later when we will go.
Interface.
Right?
I'll come to this again, but I hope currently you understand what is inheritance?
What are the different types of inheritance and why multiple inheritance is not possible.
It is known as diamond problem.
It cannot be solved through interface.
It can be solved.
So one question.
The last example which we try to extend, although it is wrong, you already said.
say?
But suppose if I have the jet engine, uh, in class C itself.
Mm.
Then it's not an issue.
Then it's not an issue because it will ultimately call its one only.
But c uh, but it has a chance of issue because, uh, class C, if it doesn't add that jet engine method
to itself, then means if jet engine present it to its parent, it will call that, then it's an issue,
right?
Yes, you are right, man.
So that's where uh, now you ask this question, then I'll tell you that that's why interface it's not
an issue because in interface you cannot implement like this.
In interface you can only say that jet engine.
That's all.
You don't implement it.
So let's say this interface A this interface B jet engine You don't implement it.
Now when you write class C, which is implementing implements a comma B both from both.
Now it has to implement.
Now it will say get engine.
Now it will do its implementation.
So that's why with interface we should be able to do is because with interface you cannot write it,
just a definition you provide in the interface for the method.
The code implementation is not possible inside an interface.
You just provide a definition.
So whichever class implements the interface it has the responsibility to write proper implementation
of it.
Right.
So we will come to interface later.
But yeah, but since you asked that question because if class C implements it it's not an issue.
And that's where interface makes class C mandatory.
Yeah.
Hey I have defined get engine Then only I haven't implemented it.
Class B has also defined Get engine.
I haven't implemented it.
But now since class C has implemented from both.
So it has to implement all the methods which interface has.
So it has to implement it.
Now get engine.
So it has to implement.
So ultimately whenever object will call it will call.
Its only.
And because if we if there is a common method also then only 111 method also.
Yeah true.
So that's why multiple inheritance is not possible.
But through interface we can solve it.
And it's a diamond problem which is not supported but through interface you can say that it's a hack.
What is the advantage of inheritance.
Somebody asks like code reusability because let's say parent has certain code, which I don't want to
write it.
Again, I can reuse it.
So code reusability.
And another is we can achieve polymorphism using inheritance.
That's why I wanted to tell.
Now what happen is polymorphism through inheritance I will tell you now the next one is polymorphism
last, right?
I hope you are not overflowed with information.
You are in proper in line with me.
Like, uh, base is important, but this is the last one, right?
I will not stretch much.
Uh, so till now you are with me, right?
All the pillars properly.
Guys.
Okay.
Yeah.
So now let's come to the polymorphism.
I'll tell you how inheritance helps in polymorphism.
So there are C poly means many morphism means form a same method.
So let's say you have a method.
A same method has the capability to take many forms.
It is known as polymorphism.
Let's say I have one method uh example which I have taken is a person.
A person can be a father.
A person can be a husband, a person can be an employee.
So a person has ability to take many forms, so it's a polymorphism.
Water.
Water can be in liquid solid gas.
The same thing in different forms.
It is known as polymorphism.
So a same method.
Same method behaves differently in different situation right.
I'll tell you how it behaves differently.
So there are two type of polymorphism which is very frequently asked method overloading which is known
as static polymorphism also known as compile time polymorphism.
Any with anything they can ask explain compile time polymorphism or static polymorphism or method overloading.
Another type is method overriding or dynamic polymorphism or runtime polymorphism.
So these are the different names.
Now let's see.
Let's say you have one class.
Class uh take it as a some.
sum.
I have a sum right?
And I have a method.
Let's say I get or I will say that.
Uh.
Do some.
Int a comma int b.
Let's say returning the int it return a plus b.
So let's say you have a class sum and the one of the method is do sum it.
It takes two variable a and b.
So what it is returning it just do some and return.
This is simple method.
So now I'm first telling you overloading.
Or compile time compile time.
Polymorphism or static polymorphism.
So what is static polymorphism or overloading?
Is int I right.
Same method with same name.
Do some, do some right.
But here if you see that it differs in parameters.
So this is you can say that overloading.
So here if you see that do some do some.
But here it is taking integer.
It is here it is taking string.
This is allowed.
It is known as overloading I can write another do some integer a comma integer b comma integer c.
Right.
So here now I have three.
Do some do some again do some.
But here it has two integer.
Here it has three integers.
Now.
So here, if you see that what is overloading is a same method, a same method name, a same method
name, but the parameter defaults.
Here it is taking integer, here it is taking string.
But here it is again taking integer but different number.
So all are different.
So here it is two.
It is three.
It is known as overloading.
So it's a compile time because here at the compile time itself Java knows that.
Let's say somebody is calling, let's say somebody is calling an some object.
Some let's say I'm creating an object calculate object calc object new some.
So I am creating a some class object.
Now I am calling one method calc object.
I am creating a calc object calc object dot do some.
Now I am passing let's say five comma two so it knows that which method to call if I pass.
Do some, uh, a comma b.
It knows that which method to call these are string.
It will call a string.
Right.
If I pass three uh three comma four comma two.
So it knows that which method to call.
So it already has all the information at the compile time itself.
Right.
Even though name are same.
Do some do some do some.
Right.
But it knows that okay.
Whenever this it has two integer.
Whenever two integer will come.
It will pass it to this one.
Whenever a string will come it will connect to this one.
Right.
So but here if you see till now it is clear what is overloading.
This is known as method overloading or static polymorphism or compile time polymorphism.
Um, one question is like suppose if I write in to do some uh and then int x comma int y mm.
Just changing the name of the parameter.
No but the type is same.
No, that is, uh, if I have x and y here, it's still wrong, because now type is same.
Okay, so let's say here one example I want to tell, let's say this is one method certain and I am
writing another method.
Now I am changing the return type string.
Do some int x comma int y again function.
So here if you say it is int x again here it is into a similar method.
Name is same, return type is different.
Here it was returning integer.
Now here it is returning string.
It will change it to string and return.
This is not allowed on the basis of return.
Type overloading cannot be done only on the basis of parameters.
It can differ on the basis of runtime.
On the basis of return type it is not possible.
So this is a very time interviewer asked that is this a right way to do it or not.
Overloading.
Everything is same, but return type is changed.
This is not allowed because during compile time, right?
It doesn't check the return type.
So return type even though are different, it doesn't bother because it only compares while doing binding
right?
While it bind it only compare the arguments which you are going to pass.
What it's going to return.
It doesn't check the binding on top of it.
It's just check.
Okay.
What arguments you are going to pass.
See here.
Just see this example.
So now I have two classes.
Now two methods sorry two methods the same.
But one is differ in the return type of n.
Another is differ on the return type of string.
Now another class I am calling let's say object the same calc object calc object dot do some.
five comma two.
Again do some five comma two.
But one is returning integer one is returning string.
But it will get confused.
Hey, which one to call?
Do I need to call?
Both are integer integer because on the return type it won't check.
Okay.
Are you taking it?
Assigning it into integer or into string?
It.
Do not check this.
Okay.
You are taking it into integer.
I need to call this one.
Okay.
You are taking this into string.
I need to call this one because many times it possible that you don't bother about catching it.
You don't bother about hey, whatever you get, I don't worry about it.
You just call it right.
So based upon this information itself, arguments both are same.
It cannot determine which to invoke.
Right.
So that's why return type it ignores.
And that's why if return types only differs it is not known as correct overloading.
Okay, you got it.
Compile time overloading.
Yeah.
Now let's see.
Uh, method overriding, which I think you already know by now, because the previous question which
has been asked.
Right.
Let's say you have class A.
I have a method, let's say get engine.
It returning.
Let's say true something.
Okay.
This is this method class.
This class closed.
Now I'm creating class B.
It extends Matlab.
It's a child of class A.
Here class B has the properties of class A means it has access to get engine.
But it also let's say I don't want to return.
True I need my own behavior.
It can override it, get engine, it overrides it.
And it says that it does its own computation and say that return based upon that computation, it returns,
let's say true or false.
Let's say false.
So it changed the behavior of the parent, even though method name is same and everything is same.
So in the overriding, if it has integer a, comma integer b, it should also have integer a, comma
integer b even the argument should be same in method overriding even the argument should be same.
Everything should be same.
Only the internal implementation can be differ.
And now which one to call, whether this or this that depend upon runtime runtime.
So now let's say I created an object of class B, class B object.
Let's say b.
OBJ equals to.
Let's say it's an object new b I created one object of class B and I am doing b dot get engine.
Which one it will invoke.
It will invoke the this engine get engine because it will call the method which is present inside this
class get engine let's say two integer right.
Integer a comma integer b.
Let's say five comma two.
So it will call this one.
But if I create a class object of class A, a object a equals to new a, and I will say that object
a dot get engine.
Four comma two anything.
Now it will call which one.
It will call this one because this is now this class object.
So it will call this one.
So here if you see that.
So a child is be both has same method.
Get engine get engine except exactly the same definition of a method.
Return type is same method name is same argument type is same exactly everything is same.
Only the implementation might differ.
Might differ, right?
But which method to call it depend upon runtime depending upon the object which you have created.
If you have created an object of this one and you call the method, it will invoke this method.
If you created an object of this class and then invoke Get Engine, it will call this one.
This is known as dynamic.
On the runtime, you decide which method to call and also known as overriding in the overriding even
the arguments method name return type.
Everything is same in overloading.
Argument type should be changed and it's in the same class.
But here overriding everything should be the same and it through like inheritance, child class a,
B and then it has the exactly same methods.
Understood polymorphism.
So in method overriding uh, like as usual.
So first whatever call the method we call it will be first looking inside the child.
Now if it is present, whatever object, which class object you are creating.
So let's say you created an object of class B, then it first check.
Hey I have this.
Yeah.
Then it will call itself.
Right.
So yeah.
So that is the procedure right.
If suppose we create a class B object then first you will see in class B if the method is present correct.
If it is missing then you will check if it is extending from some correct class and then go to that.
Correct.
You are right.
Right and overriding means the Same method present into the child class also.
Return type.
Same method.
Name.
Same.
Argument.
Same.
Only the functionality differs.
Got that?
Overriding.
We look for everything.
Return type.
Parameter.
Type.
Everything.
Parameters.
Name.
Yeah.
But in overloading we just check for name and different number of arguments types or different number.
Return type.
Right, right.
So in method overloading inside a one class only, you have two methods with the same name and different
arguments or types of arguments.
But in the method overriding its parent child inside a parent you have same function.
And in child class you also have the same function.
Exactly.
Duplicate.
Right.
And then which one to call that depend upon runtime which object you have.
Right.
But in overloading.
Same class, but something changed.
Some argument changed because you can't have duplicate methods into the same class.
Correct?
Correct.
So that covers the four pillars.
Now just before going I will tell you the relationship.
It hardly take five minutes but it is important.
So whatever we have learned, if you see that we have covered two things, is the relationship has a
relationship.
Very very important part.
Right.
So whatever the inheritance you have learned A is a parent of B.
B is a child of A right.
This is known as inheritance or is a relationship.
B is a a right.
Let's say vehicle.
Car.
So car is a child of vehicle.
So I would say that it is is a relationship.
Car is a vehicle, right?
For example, achieved through inheritance.
Dog is an animal.
So I have an animal.
I created a dog so I can say that dog is an animal.
Inheritance form is.
Inheritance form is a is a relationship.
Okay, so whenever somebody asks, hey, can you tell me is a relationship?
What do you understand by this?
Means nothing but an inheritance.
So it means indirectly.
They are asking you about inheritance.
Okay, tell that now.
Second is has a relationship.
Has a relationship.
Means.
Has a relationship means.
Uh, I mean, you are very late.
Okay.
So now has a relationship means.
You created a class A.
Now let's say you have another class B.
Right.
So in the class A itself you has the object of class B.
So let's say class A has what?
What?
Two things.
Class A has data variables and data methods.
Data variables and data methods.
So data variables like it has let's say integer x.
And it also has object of this one.
So it has let's say class b uh b object B class object.
So this is also a variable means instead of primitive like say integer it has the object of this one.
So has a relation says that whenever an object is used in another class.
So object of class B is present into class A.
So I can say that class A has class B.
So class A has object of class B right.
So it can be 1 to 1 relation one to many many to many.
For example a student And course.
This is class course.
This is class.
Excuse my Spelling's handwriting.
Class student.
Class.
Course.
So I told you that has a relationship.
Can have 1 to 1.
One to many, many to many.
So.
Right.
Let's say a student can have one course, right?
Let's say it has taken one course.
So I have an object here.
Course.
Let's say I have some English.
So a student can have one course.
So it's a 1 to 1, one to many.
One to many.
A student has list of course.
List of course.
So it will have let's say list here.
Now course list.
It can have English Hindi right.
Maths.
It has a list of course.
Got it.
So student has if one course one object of a course it has 1 to 1.
If a student one to many means student has many courses, list of courses one to many and another is
important is many to many.
So now here if you see that the student has list of courses but a course, let's say if it's an English
course, it has a list of student.
A one English course can be taken by many students.
So it does also have a list of students.
So here if you say that a student has many courses, one student can have many courses.
Similarly a one course let's say English can have many students.
Right?
So has a relationship means one class has an object of another class.
Right.
It is known as hazard relationship.
And hazard relationship could be 1 to 1 one to many many to many.
Take this example a bike has an engine.
If you created a bike class and you have an another engine class, so you create a bike and we can create
an engine object.
Bike has an engine object.
A school has a class, a school has a student.
You got it.
What is has a relationship?
Whenever inside a particular class, you have an object of another class.
It is also known as data member data variable, but it is an object of another class.
It is known as has a relationship you understand has a relationship.
Yeah.
So like does it depends only on classes or classes.
Classes.
Classes only classes.
Classes objects okay okay.
So now I was thinking one thing like main method always have lot of class instantiation.
Huh?
It's very but that is a method.
No that is a method.
So it's all I'm talking about the class.
So class A has.
So this is a data variable itself like integer age right.
Similarly it has a variable also this one.
So now see this.
This has a relationship is of two types.
Again very important guys.
This.
Aggregation and composition.
The last is weak relation.
Weak relation is strong relation.
Matter of definition.
Now you have taken, let's say uh, student or let's say school, a school, a school, a class.
And then you have a student, a student as one class.
The school has many students.
It has list of student object, let's say student.
It has list of student object.
But now let's say it has has a relationship because one class has an object of another class.
But now let's say one thing got destroyed.
Let's say student got destroyed.
This class, I deleted it will school will get deleted.
No write a school will.
Both are.
It's.
That's why it is called weak relationship.
If any one is removed, another thing will not get removed, right?
Both objects can survive independently.
Means ending of one object will not end another object.
If I destroy the school, will a student will get destroyed.
Also, no students will enroll to some other school.
But this school destroyed.
Both are independent, right?
Similarly, just take an example that school classes or rooms?
School rooms.
Now let's say if I destroyed school, definitely room will also get destroyed.
Let's say room has 100 rooms.
School has 100 rooms.
If I destroyed school, definitely rooms will also get destroyed.
So they are strongly related.
Strongly related.
Ending of one object will end another object.
You got it.
Hey, one question.
Like you said in school, you have list of students, huh?
Okay.
In weak relationship.
Can you remove students from school?
It won't impact school.
Correct.
School later will can have another student's future.
But school will still be present.
But it's an empty.
So suppose I create an object of school, and then I try to access this list of students.
What will happen?
It will be empty.
Let's say empty.
No students and list would be empty.
That's it.
Like suppose that list has been cited with creating an object of the student.
Okay, so you are creating a if object is not even present.
Yeah.
But that's okay.
We can remove that thing.
But the school is not destroyed.
Yeah.
School is not destroyed.
But won't that give any error?
Because we are trying to access a class called College student, which is not present.
Okay, so see this one now?
Okay.
Uh, see, with this simple example, there are, let's say 100 students.
Okay.
If you remove five students, will school get destroyed?
No, no.
Right.
If definitely you.
I'm what?
I think your question is if you definitely delete this class itself.
Student class.
Definitely.
You have to change it because there will be a compilation error.
Right.
But I'm saying is let's say you have 100 student out of 100 student, if you destroyed even 99 student
or even all hundred students, you destroyed the objects.
But you have a class, but you destroyed all the objects.
A student will not.
School will not get deleted.
But let's say you have a school, a school and rooms.
Now in a particular.
When you create a school object, then you create rooms, right?
Okay.
I have created a school a.
The school A has four rooms.
I created another school B, school B has ten rooms.
Now, if I destroy this object, this four classes will automatically get destroyed.
Also, if I destroy this object.
Now I'm talking about object.
If I destroy this object, this whatever that classes which I have rooms which I have created that will
also get destroyed.
But if you destroy the class itself, then definitely there will be compilation error for sure if somebody
has the reference.
Okay, okay, but understand it's all talking from the object perspective.
If removing of one object impacts other, it's a strong has a relationship.
If removing of one object doesn't impact the other, it is a weak has the relationship weak relationship
known as aggregation strong is known as composition.
Okay, see you guys.
Bye.

--- How Java Program Works and 3 Important Components (JVM, JRE & JDK) with example ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And in Java Basics to Advanced.
Today is the second video.
And here today I am going to cover the Java overview.
Right.
So some of the very very important topics which makes the fundamental right.
So let's start with it without wasting any time okay.
So let's first start with it.
What if ask what is Java right.
If I ask you what is Java then what you should say.
So we can say that Java is a platform.
It's a platform independent language and highly popular object oriented programming.
And you already know what are all the feature object oriented programming as right inheritance, polymorphism,
encapsulation and uh, what abstraction.
Right.
So we have already covered in the first video because we are going to use a lot of terms.
Oops.
So you know that one.
Oops.
Language has what all capabilities or features.
So what is Java?
Java is a platform independent language and a very popular object oriented programming.
Right.
And the major advantage the major major advantage of Java is its portability.
And that's why we call this Voora.
Right.
And what does Voora means?
Voora means write once.
Run anywhere.
Okay.
So what does it mean?
So let's say you have written a Java program in your mobile, right?
So this Java program now can be run on a laptop or a desktop or notebooks Box anywhere, right?
So that's why it is highly portable.
Language means write once and run anywhere.
Run anywhere.
Right.
So what is Java?
Java is a platform independent language and popular oops a language.
And the biggest advantage we call it as a portability, which is wora write once, run anywhere.
Right.
So I'll tell you how we get this capability, how Java gets this capability.
So now we get little bit more deeper.
So let's check its three main components.
Three main components.
The three main components are.
First is.
JVM.
Second is Jar.
And third is JDK.
Okay.
Right.
So let's first see what is JVM.
JVM is stand for Java virtual.
Machine.
Okay.
So first of all it's an abstract.
It's an abstract machine.
What does abstract mean?
It means it doesn't exist physically.
It doesn't exist physically.
It's a just you can say that kind of a software, but we call it a machine.
So don't assume that there is certain machine physically.
No, it's just an abstract machine.
So now let's discuss this.
What is the use of JVM?
So here, uh, if you before you I tell you the usage of JVM, first understand this flow.
You have a Java program.
It pass through compiler, It pass through.
Compiler.
Then it get what?
Bytecode.
This bytecode is passed through JVM.
JVM convert into.
Machine code and machine code now can be run read by CPU and we get the output.
So now if you see that this JVM is very very important because because of this JVM only we get this
portability.
We get this portability when we call it a platform independent, right?
We get it because of what JVM now understand.
Why?
Because when Java code is compiled.
We are not getting machine code directly.
What we are getting byte code.
This byte code can be run by JVM, right?
So let's say so here I would say that VM is it's not platform independent.
It's a platform dependent.
C JVM is not platform independent.
Java program is platform.
This is platform independent.
But this JVM is not.
Or I would say that not platform independent or I would say that platform.
This is platform dependent.
Let's say you have Mac OS, then you need a particular JVM if you have window.
OS, it has its own specification, then you need its compatible JVM, right?
So JVM is platform dependent in which system you are running, right?
So it's a platform dependent, right?
So now when the Java program is compiled right we get bytecode.
Now bytecode is the input to the JVM right.
And what JVM does it JVM has JVM has its compiler.
Right.
It's called just in time.
Just in time compiler.
Just in time.
Just.
Just in time compiler.
So JVM has JIT compiler.
What it will do is it will take bytecode and convert it to the machine code.
So now what is the task of JVM?
Now you know that JVM has first thing.
It is platform dependent means in which platform you are running.
So JVM should be very much attached to that one, right?
Second thing is its input is byte code and output is machine code.
Now how it is helping the portability now.
So now if you see that once you have the bytecode, this bytecode is any JVM can read any byte code,
right.
So you have written Java program here in mobile phone.
In mobile phone.
And you got a byte code.
Now you can take this byte code and run this into the JVM of certain another system which is Linux,
let's say or Mac or Windows.
Any system, right.
Any JVM you take this bytecode, provide this to the JVM and it would be able to run it.
So now you see that you have written a Java program on a mobile phone, but you are running on certain
JVM which is of Linux or Mac, but it enables to run it because JVM understand bytecode, right?
It able to read it and convert it to machine code.
So that's why it brings Java portability or platform independent language.
Java program is platform independent, but JVM is platform dependent.
So now take this example.
So I have created a student class right.
So I'll tell you about this class in uh just after this, uh, once we complete JVM JDK, right.
I will explain you this proper class.
We will create one.
Right.
But first I wanted to explain you that here.
If you see that, I tell you that Java program.
So you have this Java program I tell you that Java program.
So this is our Java program very small right now.
So we have the Java program Java program is in.
What if you see student dot Java.
So it is like file name dot Java.
Now let's compile this.
So how we compile this.
So we have Java C and we give student dot Java.
So now here if you see that at before I press enter just see at this site in the source you see only
student class.
Right.
But as soon as I press now enter you will see student dot class came.
Right.
So now here if you see that when it pass through compiler, when it pass through compiler it gives us
the bytecode.
Bytecode is an file name dot class.
Right?
So this is dot class is nothing but a bytecode.
You can take this bytecode now and run it anywhere.
Which which machine has JVM.
Now you can run it this bytecode dot class anywhere which has JVM and you would be able to get the output.
Okay.
So you got what is the usage of JVM properly, why JVM makes Java platform independent, right.
And how the Java program is Java bytecode.
Bytecode is dot class okay.
So this is your JVM.
Now let's talk about JR.
JR is Java.
Java runtime.
Environment.
So Java Runtime Environment has two things.
The first thing is it has your JVM and second it has your class libraries.
So let me explain you this thing now.
So first it has JVM.
Second it has your class libraries.
So you already know about the JVM part.
Thus now second thing which I wanted to tell you about class libraries.
So here if you see that the same the same code here.
So just focus on this class here.
What I have used here I have used certain libraries math dot absolute.
So it is coming from this library Java dot lang.
So these are already created present in Java, right?
Similarly, let's say I've created an array.
I sorted it using an existing library.
Arrays dot sort and I pass it.
It will sort it.
So it is present into Java util dot arrays Java util library.
So there are certain already libraries which are present.
So like Java dot math.
Dot util right.
So there are so many libraries which are present.
So JRE is a combination of JVM plus libraries.
So now here if you see that once you have the bytecode right.
Once you have the bytecode ready now in the JVM.
So here if you see that in the student dot dot class.
So it is a bytecode right.
So now first it will resolve this linking it need to resolve this.
It need the code right.
array's dot sort.
If you go inside it, it has a complete, uh, code.
Right?
Which is not aware of us because we are using library already with Java provided.
But this has to be resolved during runtime, right?
So what happen is when we say that in JRE, j is what JRE is JVM plus class libraries.
So in the bytecode we might have we might be using certain libraries.
So JVM need those libraries which is required.
So let's say in this code in this student dot class bytecode it might be having a resort math dot absolute.
But I haven't provided the code.
So when this bytecode has to be run by JVM it it use this classpath libraries with JRA has right and
then it will run the complete code.
So now you can say that if you have only JRA, if you have only JRA, you can run any Java program.
If you have only JRA, you can run any Java program.
But you cannot code it right?
But you cannot code it right.
Because JRA has class libraries also and it has JVM also, right?
So if you have a byte code, it can easily run any Java program.
So any byte code it can run because all the libraries will be resolved for sure.
Right.
And one thing is you cannot have only JVM, right?
You have to have JRE and JVM come as part of JRE.
You have to have Jerry and JVM come as part of Jerry, right?
So you got it.
If you have bytecode and you have JRE, you can definitely able to run it without any issue, right?
Because JRE has JVM which can work on which can take the bytecode as an input.
And if any libraries are used inside the code, it can resolve through class libraries because JRE has
class library class libraries also.
Right.
So when.
That's why we will say that with JRE any bytecode can be run properly, but you cannot write the code
right.
So now where we got the third part is JDK.
Java.
Development kit.
With Java development kit you get a programming language like here.
Now I am writing write system dot out dot println like something whatever the Java code I am writing
now.
That is because this feature is present into Java Development kit.
It has all this language information about it.
Compiler I did Java C right Java C.
So this compiler is present into JDK because you know that compiler compiles the Java program into.
So this is dot Java file.
And after compilation it will change it to dot class file right.
So JDK has programming language compiler and debugger.
You can also debug your code.
So JDK is equals to j r plus this all these things programming language plus compiler, plus debugger,
and certain other features.
Right.
So if you download JDK you will get JRE also plus all these things.
And when you have JRE you internally got JVM also plus classpath libraries class libraries.
Okay.
And now you already know that jvm jdk j.
All three are platform dependent.
Platform dependent right?
But the Java code which we write once it is converted to bytecode, this is platform independent.
We can run, we can take it to any system which has JVM and we can run it.
Or you can say that JRE which has any anything which has JRE, it will able to run it because JRE has
both JVM plus libraries, because sometime we need libraries also.
Okay, so now you understand properly, right?
JVM, jdk, jre what are the differences and why we how they work?
What like in Java programming how these three things helps, right?
So that's why we will say that let's download.
The next step is you have to download JDK.
Now you know that if you download JDK you will get all.
You will get JRE.
Also you will get uh JVM.
Also because JRE has JVM, you will get all your compiler, programming language and debugger also.
Okay, now let's see how you can download the JDK.
Now if you go to Google search for uh, you can search for uh, Java, let's say you want.
So I think there are still Java 17 are the versions which is present, but you can see what Java version
you wanted to download.
Let's say you wanted to add Java eight right.
You can download any latest version also for sure.
Right.
Let's say you wanted to add Java eight download right.
So you have to go to this Oracle Archive Downloads.
So go inside this one.
Here at the this thing you will get windows 6486 Mac OS 64.
Right.
So you can download this one and install you can download here and install.
So I've already done for the Mac OS one I've already downloaded and installed okay.
So from this one you can download it okay.
So this is the source of downloading the Java.
You can download any version okay.
So once you downloaded it.
After downloading and installing you can run Java hyphen version to see that.
Thus you will see that okay, if you do Java eight, Java 15 or Java 17.
Whichever the latest version, you will see that version.
Yes, Java is properly installed.
Okay, so it's a very simple to download from the Oracle itself, download from that Oracle page itself.
It's an authentic one right.
Uh, don't download from others.
So now the next thing after JDK, GR and JVM, the next thing which I wanted to tell you about is about.
J and J.
So it will not take much time it just to make sure that in future when you will download somewhere and
somebody is talking, you will get to know about these terms.
So don't worry about this term.
So this JS is nothing but Java The standard edition.
J e is nothing but a Java.
Enterprise edition.
Jwm is nothing but a Java micro, or sometimes people call it Mobile Edition and people.
I think its name has been changed.
Now people call it Jakarta EE.
Okay, so here the currently JSC Java Standard Edition is nothing, but you can say that core Java,
anything which we are doing right as a developer, you are learning Java, right?
So JSC is nothing but a core Java.
Uh, whatever we will do classes, objects, multi-threading and all those things.
That's all comes in Java and it's nothing but as a part of Java Standard Edition.
Now here comes the second is J Java Enterprise Edition.
So J is Java Standard Edition plus certain APIs like uh you can say the transactional API, transactional
API rollback commit.
Right.
All this APIs you will get into Java Enterprise Edition uh servlets JSP, Java server pages.
So these features you will get into Java Enterprise Edition.
Right.
And generally Java Enterprise Edition is used in to for uh, building large scale application like e-commerce
because you need transactional right rollback commit capabilities.
Right.
So and also you need persistence API persistence API.
Let's say you want to manage relational DB.
So you need persistent APIs so that are present into G.
So it's a Java Standard Edition which is core Java plus certain APIs, which features additional benefit.
Similarly we have Gem, which is nothing but a Java micro Edition or Java mobile edition.
It provides APIs for mobile applications generally.
So you can see you will find uh, so very resource constrained, uh app.
Right.
Like uh and mobile.
So there it will help.
You will find lot of APIs, Java APIs which will be applicable for building mobile applications generally
running on mobile.
Right.
If you are running, uh, this all those features on a mobile then gem edition, you will prefer.
Okay.
So see this is just wanted to give you a heads up that uh and anytime you will see okay, you are downloading
this Java JDK version.
You will see.
Jessie J so don't worry about it.
We are generally working on Jessie Java Standard Edition so you will see like okay Jessie JDK version
this.
So it is nothing but a Java Standard Edition, Java Enterprise Edition and Micro Edition Mobile Edition.
Okay, so this is just for heads up so that you don't get confused with like what is Jessie J and JM?
Now I want to tell you about the let's write the first Java program.
Let's write our first Java program and we'll see this.
Okay I am creating a new I'm creating a new Java class itself.
Let's say I'm creating an employee employee Java class.
Right.
So now here if you see that what is the file name I given employee dot Java.
So the automatically so generally the class also has the employee as a class name.
Right.
So first thing is what?
First thing is notice file name is equivalent to.
Class name.
Whatever the file name you have given, the same class name should be present.
Right.
And it should be public.
A one class can have only one public class A one file.
You can say that second one file can have only one public class.
Right.
Now, before going further now we are going to make a class.
Right.
Now let me tell you its structure.
Right.
Let's see the class structure now.
So here the class structure is your.
So why a class can have variables.
A class can have methods.
A class can have constructor.
A class can have nested.
Class or inner class.
So see we will all go in depth in our future videos right.
You know that like one level deep.
So we will all go to this one right.
But generally a class have all these things.
So I am going to first create a method only with one.
So here I'm creating one method public static void main args right.
Now here let's first discuss about this what I have written now.
No.
So this is the class generally the class structure.
So main method.
Main method is the.
Starting point of the program right.
So now let's say you got a byte code.
You got a byte code.
So you have a Java program.
You compiled it.
You compiled it and you got a byte code.
Now byte code is read by whom?
JVM.
Now what JVM do is JVM calls main method to start running the program, right?
So that's why we call that main is the starting point of the program.
Right.
So JVM calls the main method right.
And that's why this has public static void main.
Now let's understand this.
You know, that main method is the one with JVM calls to start initiating the program.
Void is nothing but a return type.
Return type means this method is not returning anything.
Don't expect any return public is it can be called from.
Anywhere.
So generally there are multiple access specifier.
I won't go in deep like because we have private protected public right default.
I won't give in deep it because we will going to discuss in the next videos.
But just understand that public means a program, a method or a variable.
Anything can be invoked from anywhere, right?
And this main method has to be invoked by JVM.
That's why we make it public because JVM has to call it.
It has to be invoked outside of the package, outside of the directory.
Right.
So that's why we make it public and why static.
Right.
So again static I won't go in deep because otherwise you will get confused.
So just understand from this from the first.
If you have seen the first video where I have, uh, you might have already know about the objects,
right.
So now generally if you have to invoke for any class, you have a class and you class A, now you have
created an object, right?
Created an object from this class.
Class A object equals to new a right.
Generally I will tell you about this how we create an object.
But understand from this.
Like for this class, I have created an object.
And from this object only I can access the method object dot whatever the method name.
Right?
But now here.
Why?
Static is when you create any method or any variable, static means it is now not a part of an object.
It is a part of class.
You can directly access it through the class name.
You can.
Instead of creating an object, you can call it.
Let's say it is a method one something, so you don't need object if it is static.
If it is static, you can call it by a class name itself a dot method one it will get invoked.
But if it is not a static then you need an object, and from object itself you will need object dot
method one.
Then only it will get invoked.
Don't worry about static.
We will go more in deep.
But you first understand that when we write public static void main, right, you know that main is
invoked by JVM, right?
And that's why it is called that the starting point of the program.
Right.
Whatever Java code you write hundreds of files and all.
So from main only it will start.
Now from here you start calling other class other methods and write your program right.
But this is the starting point.
And why?
Because JVM calls only main.
And now the second thing is void means it is no return type.
Public means it has to be open.
This method is to be open to be called from outside of the package.
Static means JVM doesn't require to create an object of this class, right?
Whatever the classes, it can just call by class name, class name, dot, whatever the main method.
That's why we made it static.
Okay.
So that's why public static void main.
And this is the argument.
So JVM can pass certain arguments if a user wanted to pass it, we will see later.
But now let's go more.
So now here I am writing.
This is a command line compiler will ignore this.
So see any any code which has this.
This is nothing but a comment.
Also there is one way of also doing this.
This, this is also a comment.
And it it can be in multiple lines also.
Right.
And I close it.
So this is also considered as a comment.
But for this one it has to be for each line.
You have to give it for each line you have to add this.
But here starting and anything between this can be considered as a comment.
Okay, so this is nothing but a comment after you have written the comment.
Now here.
What, uh, what happen is let's say I'm creating one variable integer A equals to minus ten.
Right.
And now I'm printing system dot out dot println like you can right.
This is.
My first program and output of a is plus what would be the output.
It will print here.
Right.
So System.out.println.
This means it will print this in the console right.
So it will print this in the console that it will print minus ten.
This is my first program.
And output of a is it will print minus ten right.
So now this is a very simple Java program.
You have a class name which is name is equivalent to the whatever the file name you have created.
Then you must have a public static void main, because this is the starting point and this is a comment
section.
And whatever the code.
Now you have to write.
You have to you can write it here.
Right now what you will do is we have to first compile this code.
This is Dot Java.
As of now.
Now here, if you see there is nothing like employee dot class because we have to compile it Java C
we are employee dot Java.
Now we are compiling it.
So now it is converted to a byte code right.
When it is converted to a byte code, now we can take this byte code to any JVM.
And if we want the JVM to run it we will put Java employee right.
If you run it, you will see the output of a is minus ten, right.
So this is here it is.
I think it is hidden under this one.
I'll see why it say.
But here, if you see that it is printing this line, this is my first program.
And output of a is minus ten.
Okay.
So this is our first basic Java program.
I think you are very much clear.
You should be clear of bytecode right.
Dot class files and all those things.
Now here, if you see that one more thing before going, let's say I change it to 11, I change the
dot Java.
Right?
I changed the dot Java uh, dot Java file and I'm running Java employee again.
What would be the output output would be again minus ten only because dot class file is not updated
yet.
I haven't compiled it again, even though I have changed it and saved it, but I haven't compiled it
again because JVM reads only bytecode dot class, not dot Java.
So when I compile it again Java C.
Employee dot Java.
When I compile it again and run again Java employee it will print -11 because now bytecode has been
updated -11.
Okay guys.
So I think I hope it is clear the overview right how Java works while Java is now platform independent
JDK jre JVM how actually Java code is working.
A small basic thing, right?
What is the purpose of the main method?
Because JVM needs it.
Uh, I have already told you the place from where you can download it, right?
Download it from Oracle one, right.
And uh, yeah, that's pretty much today Java Basics overview I hope you enjoyed it.
We'll see you later.
Bye.

--- Quiz Question: Why only 1 Public Class in JAVA file ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So in the previous video we have seen about JRE, JDK, JVM and dot class files.
And also one basic Java class right.
So where there I told you that one thing in a Java class, single file in a Java single file, we can
have only one public class.
So this is one of the very good interview question that why in Java file we can have only one public
class right.
So because if you haven't seen the previous video check it out before.
So I'll tell you that if you remember in a class where I created, let's say, a right, and you remember
that we have created a method public static void main string args.
Right.
So what I told you that main is over starting or we call as entry point.
From this we can call other classes, other methods and all these things right.
But this is the starting point.
And from there our code begins.
We can have more methods but we will call it from here.
Right.
So one thing is, and I told you that this main method should be inside a public class should be inside
a public class.
So let's see the everything relation.
Why it's all required okay.
So one thing is first thing main method should be inside.
Public class second is.
Public class name.
Should be Same as.
File name.
If you understand these two properly, you.
I think you will get the answer.
So first of all, main method should be inside public class, right?
You know why?
Why it should be inside a public class.
Because you know that.
Who will call the main method JVM?
If you know from the previous method, JVM is going to invoke the main method and it's so it need access
to this method, right?
And I told you that it is created as a static so that JVM can just call with a class name, right?
Simply class name.
Whatever the class name is, let's say A is the class name a dot main, right?
So it can call with just a class name okay.
So we want this class to be public so that it would be accessible to the JVM outside its package so
that this class would be available outside.
So why main method is inside a public class?
Because it has to be accessed by JVM, right?
Because main method is invoked by JVM using a class name.
So that class should be accessible.
So we made it a public.
Okay, we got this.
Now the thing is why public class name should be same as file name.
What does it mean?
So let's say if you have created a file let's say employee dot Java, and if any class you are creating
public then it's name public class name should be name should be same as file name only.
It should be employee only.
You cannot keep this as public class manager.
You cannot keep this by keeping a file name as employee dot Java.
This is not allowed.
Now understand this.
Why?
Why public class name?
Why public class name should be same as file name.
Why Java restrict this?
So now let's understand this.
Employee dot Java only employee dot Java.
Let's say it has 100 of classes class A class B.
Similarly.
Similarly it has class x, y, z.
It has so many classes right.
And I told you that JVM is going to invoke the method.
Main method and main method should be inside a public class.
If there are more than one public class public public public, then how would JVM know?
Main method is inside which class, right?
But if we.
If Java has put a restriction that okay, only one public class can be present and its name should be
same as whatever the file name.
So now let's say only one public class, let's say here be class B.
So definitely it would be B dot Java right?
So JVM can easily know that it doesn't have to know about even there are 100 classes.
JVM doesn't have to worry about it.
It just knows that okay, if B dot Java is there, right?
This is the file name.
So any public method, any public class there should be B only right.
And in that only main method can exist because main method can be inside a public class.
Right.
Main method can be inside only a public class.
And the public class name should be same as a file name.
Understood.
So both are related and both JVM needed it.
And so that Java put a restriction.
So I think you got it right.
So because of this two interlinked it we make that in Java a single file can have only one public class.

--- Java Variables - Part1 | Primitive Data Types in Depth ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today I am going to cover variables in the series of Java.
And this is very very important because I am going to cover so many topics in might be couple of videos.
Right.
Uh, but this is you can say that it will create your fundamental right.
And so many interview questions comes on top of it.
So we have to cover so many topics, very, very important topics.
And let's just start without even wasting any time.
So let's start with what is variable okay.
Variable is a container which holds a value.
So you know right.
Anything container.
Let's say this is a container which holds a water.
So similarly in Java variable is nothing but a container which holds a value.
And how do we declare it.
We declare in this way data type.
For example my one of the data type is integer.
Let's say variable name.
Variable name is nothing like uh, whatever the container name you want to give, let's say I want to
give a name where right then the value, what value it will store.
So integer holds let's say 32 or 50.
Any any integer variable.
So here what I have done is I have created a variable of data type end.
And what value it is storing 32.
Okay.
So variable is a container which holds a value.
So this is a now my container which is holding a variable 32 okay.
So Java is a static typed language.
Static type language.
And it is also strongly strong typed language.
When somebody asks you hey can you tell me what is Java is a static type language or not?
Or is Java is a strong type language or not?
For both.
The question answer is yes.
Java is a static type language.
Java is also a strong type language.
What does it mean?
So C static type language means in Java.
Whenever you create a variable here I have created a variable var you have to define its data type.
You have to define its data type right.
So I have to define its data type like here I have created integer right integer where.
So this is what this is its data type.
What does data type tells.
Like what kind of data it will store.
So here it is.
Integer tells that it can store integer numbers one, two, three, 4567.
Like this.
Right.
So this is known as static type language because every variable has a data type which tell what kind
of data it can store.
Then Java is a strong type language.
What does a strong type language means?
Now you have defined a data type integer.
Now you know that you can assign a value.
One, two, 300.
Anything.
But can you define.
Can you assign any value?
No.
It we can define within a range for each data type.
We have a range between which we can assign a value to this variable.
So we have a restriction.
Or you can say that we have a limit on the value which can be assigned to this.
We cannot assign like 123456789 ten 1112.
Such a big number to this.
So it can only be specified within a range.
We will see what is the range of let's say integer and different data types.
But the strong type language means we have a restriction like what value we can assign to this variable.
Okay.
So I think you understand uh what is the static type language and what is strong type language okay.
And this is how we define a variable data type.
What is the variable name and the value.
Now let's see some of the naming variable naming convention.
So this is the variable name right which you are going to use or which you are going to come up with.
Right.
Let's say here I have come up with variable.
So there are certain naming convention which we have to follow in Java.
First of all variable name is case sensitive.
So means this.
And this is different right.
So variable name is case sensitive int a is different.
Int a is different right.
This variable name means this variable name is different.
Second variable name can be.
Any legal identifier means it can contain Unicode letters and digits Unicode letters.
You know right.
What does Unicode means?
Universal code.
Universal code I think can contain all language characters.
Right?
All language.
Maybe different languages we have.
Right.
Apart from English.
So all the different special characters which we have, right?
It contains those letters also.
So it can contain all Unicode letters and digits.
Right.
Let's say a, b a, let's say dollar underscore.
So this can be a part of your variable.
Variable name can start with dollar underscore and letter.
So let's say I'm creating a variable name of data type integer.
And what is the variable.
Name it let's say underscore dollar sign where this is valid underscore where this is valid.
Where it is valid it is starting with character.
It is starting with underscore.
It is starting with dollar.
All three are correct.
But let's say nine where this is wrong.
It cannot start with a digit, but only with this three letters.
It can start dollar, underscore and letter variables can not be Java reserve words.
So Java has certain keywords like new to create a new object class to create a class for loop while
loop, and let's say even the data types integer float character, we will going to see.
So this Java has reserved it right.
So we cannot use that as a variable name let's say I.
So this is a data type integer I cannot use this as a variable name.
This is a reserved for Java right.
Even though it is containing letter only.
But this is a reserved word.
There are so many reserved words you will like.
Even if I mentioned here right, you will forget like so.
As soon as you work with Java, you will automatically know what all the reserved words in Java variable
name should be all small if it contain only one word.
Otherwise camel case should be followed.
What does it mean?
I mean by here is that say I am creating a int.
Let's say I'm creating a city name Jaipur.
So Jaipur is only one, uh, one word, right?
So I have to keep it one small.
Everything is small Jaipur.
And it's an integer data type.
Let's say I'm assigning two, But let's say it is two words.
Then I have to follow camel case, let's say integer Jaipur city I have to write.
So it should be Jaipur city two.
So it's a camel case.
So start with the small and whenever the another word going to start make it capital right.
So this is the standard of giving a variable name for constant variable name.
It should be defined in capital letter.
So don't worry about what do you mean by constant variable name.
Because it is in my list.
Because this is constant I will define you in in detail, but understand this.
Keep this in your back of the mind as of now, that whenever we have to define a constant variable name,
it should be defined in capital letter, right?
Let's say I am defining a, let's say a static final int.
And now I'm defining Jaipur.
So don't worry about this.
We will discuss in later.
Right.
But this makes this variable constant means this value cannot be changed now.
So whenever we are defining a constant variable, it has to be defined in a capital letter and understand
that one that this is not the convention naming convention which we follow in Java.
Okay.
So now you know what is variable, how to create a variable and what is the naming convention.
And I think you are clear with the static and strong type language.
What does it mean.
Okay.
Now let's start with types of variable.
Types of variable.
So in Java we have two types primitive type and reference and non primitive type.
So I will cover this in next video right.
I'll cover this in next video.
So today in this video I'll most concentrate on primitive types right.
So there are total eight primitive types with eight primitive types.
You have a variable character byte, short, int, long, float, double, and boolean.
Okay.
So let's go ahead with the first character.
So character is two bytes right 16 bits character representation of an Ascii value.
And what is the range.
Range is this.
So now let's understand with this one.
So we have two bytes two byte means eight bits.
So
1234567812345678.
So you know right one byte is of eight bits.
So it is of two bytes right.
So what is the range 0 to 6 5535.
So two raised to power zero two raised to power one two raised to power two.
Similarly I think this would be two raised to power.
15 so that will come to this one, right?
If you add one one, one one all plus it will come to this 65535 0 to 6 5535.
Is the range right.
So what does character is character representation of an Ascii value.
Now now let's see an example of character right.
So let's say I am defining a one character is where here a right.
And now you can print where.
So it will print a.
Now I am running this code.
It will simply print what a right.
If I give 65 you know right in Ascii.
In Ascii we have this number.
And what is the character representation.
Even if you give 65 it will print a capital A, right.
I think 97 is a small a 97 is small a.
97 is a small a.
So here if you see this is how we can define and you can even assign an integer value to it, but it
will internally take its character representation.
Right.
So now if you see the character right now you know that.
The range of it is this one you like for each number, even if you assign a number, right, 32 or let's
say 64, 64 is at the rate 65 is A, 66 is B.
Like this is how Ascii is, right?
I think first one is zero.
Is this only 0000.
So for each number there is a character.
So that's why range can be 0 to 6 265535.
That is this one.
So this is the character representation and this is the character representation.
And this is the range 0 to 6 553565535 would be f f f f right.
So the default value is character is this.
This is the starting null.
I think this is known as null null not null null.
This is a default value of character zero right.
So now you know that how to define a character right.
Now let's go with the byte.
So byte is as you know one byte right.
Only eight bits.
12345678.
Right.
It's a signed second complement.
I'll come to this now.
This is very important to understand.
But first let's see its range.
What is its range.
Minus one.
28.
Two.
One.
27.
Default value is zero.
So you know.
Right.
Bite.
Uh.
So this is all.
You can say that it is your integral type.
Integral type means you can assign values like one, two, three, minus four, minus five.
Like this.
Right.
Integer type values you can assign to.
So I see I told you right in the character.
Also you can assign the value 35 so its character representation will be printed right.
Similarly for byte short and long for this you can.
It's an integral type.
This is your.
Fractional or floating type.
And this is your boolean.
So we will come to this later.
But currently we are doing this right.
So byte is eight bits.
It's a signed second complement which I am going to tell you now.
And what is the default value is zero.
So what is this range?
-120 to 127.
So how so?
See eight eight bits.
Right.
One byte, eight bits.
So 12345678.
Which is two raised to power zero two.
Raised to power one two raised to power two two raised to power 3242.
Raised to 526271248 1632 64 128.
Right.
This is two power zero and all these things.
Right.
So here what is the maximum value it can have is maximum value.
It can have is if it is all 111111111.
So mean 128 plus 64 plus 32 plus 16 plus eight plus four plus two plus one.
So generally maximum it is 255 right 0 to 255.
But byte short all this one byte short int long.
All are signed.
Second complement.
Signed means.
Negative numbers are also allowed.
So now understand this signed one very very important.
Lot of confusion happen to the candidates here.
So understand this properly and any doubts feel free to ping me on comment section.
I'll reach out soon.
So now you know that maximum is 0 to 255.
But it's a sign means partial is negative.
Partial is positive and that's why its range is -120 to 27.
Right.
So 12345678.
So when it is signed means this bit.
Last bit if it is zero means it is positive.
If it is one means it is negative okay.
So now let's say you have to define let's say three as a negative.
Let's say.
Let's see why it is called second complement.
Signed.
Second complement.
Okay.
So I'm just for simplification.
Uh, instead of eight bytes I am taking an example of four, uh, eight bits.
I'm taking an example of four bits.
Consider it's a four bit.
Now I want to represent plus three how you will represent.
So you know right.
This is 1248.
So positive three how you will define it.
1100 right.
1100 is your positive three how you will define negative three?
I told you it's a sign right.
If it is a negative means last one is one then is it like this.
This is three and this is negative.
Is it how we define minus three.
No minus sign this second complement right.
So how we define is like this.
So we will take a second complement of this one.
Let's say positive three is 0011.
If I want negative three I need to take its second complement.
So first complement would be one is zero one is zero zero is one zero is one and plus one.
To get a second complement it's 1011.
So minus three is represented as this.
So now if you do plus three minus this your three plus minus three it should come as zero right.
This is generally how the addition works.
Right.
So now if you plus this 0011 and this minus three 1101 it should come zero.
If you plus it it should come
011101110111011101.
I have explained you, for example, write for simplification.
I am taking a four bits example, so only four bit.
We will consider the extra.
We will uh it will lose it.
Right.
So let's say if byte is eight bits.
So if it is coming as nine so ninth bit it will ignore only eight bit it will consider.
So.
Similarly for this example I considered four.
So it will only consider four.
And if you see that it's zero okay.
So since it's a sign right so means negative and positive are there.
That's why -128 to 127.
Right.
This is the range eight bit.
So I think maximum could be 0 to 255.
But since it's a sign negative is also allowed.
So that's why it is now divided -128 to 127 which is nothing.
But if you add it 128 127 it would be 225.
So that's how the range is.
So what's the default value of byte is zero?
Okay.
So here let's say if I am taking an example here, uh employee I am creating a bite where I am not defining
anything right.
I'm just printing here System.out.println.
Well, right.
And from the main method I am calling that employee class.
Don't worry about this.
This one I will explain you in the non-primitive type.
I'm creating an employee object and in the object I'm calling the dummy method.
So in the dummy method what we have a byte variable which if you see that we haven't defined anything
0 or 1 anything, but we are just printing it.
So what it will print.
It should print.
It's it should print its default value.
Default value is zero.
Right.
See default value is zero.
Okay.
So this is one thing.
And always remember this thing, right.
This default value is only assigned to.
Class.
Member variables.
And this is let's say I'm defining another local variable right.
And now if I'm trying to use local variable it shows an error.
It says that hey assign it assign some value.
So default value only works with the class member variable.
So don't worry about it.
The types or the kinds of variable class local static I will cover this soon, right?
But always remember that the default values is automatically assigned to the class member variables
only.
For others like say local, you have to manually specify the value.
Let's say seven, right.
So that you have to define.
Then only it will take.
Okay.
Now let's say short.
So short is nothing.
But it's also an integer right.
But byte is one.
One byte short is two byte which is 16 bits.
It's again a signed second complement.
The range is this.
So I think uh now you now know right how to compute a range based upon a bit.
And default value is zero.
Now let's come to int.
Int is the same for byte which is a 32 bits again assigned signed two complement which you know what
does it mean.
Range is two raised to power 31 to 2 raised to power 31 minus one.
Right.
Because it's a signed right.
So negative values are also allowed.
Default value is zero right.
How you define it int variable name.
And you can define anything 100.
Right.
Short is like similarly like short variable assign anything, let's say 200 something byte.
You have already seen the example.
Similarly long long is eight bytes, which is 64 bits, right?
Again, assign second complements means negative numbers are allowed.
Range is two raised to power minus two raised to power 63.
Two two raised to power 63 minus one.
Default value is zero.
Right.
And how you define a long.
It's long.
You can have like a number let's say 500.
And you can have l also here.
Let's say in main class itself.
Let me have this one long where equals to 100.
Just define L like this right.
It means it's a long variable right.
And System.out.println.
Just to print it.
Right.
Okay.
So whenever you have to define as a long, just add L after a integer variable, it will be considered
as a long.
Okay.
Now let's come to.
So now you know that till now here character byte short and long.
So all are integral type.
All are integral type means you can assign numbers like -23 plus means 2400.
Now we are going to discuss float and double which is fractional means we are going to have a non decimal
numbers right.
So here if you see that float float is 32 bit IEEE 754 values.
Double is 64 bit IEEE 754 values.
They are going to store a fractional value like float variable equals to let's say 63.20.
So it can contain a decimal number.
Now similarly it will have double and you have to keep it after it F.
Similarly here double let's say variable.
Let's say 63.2 0DD for double here.
So we have to define like this.
So now here float and double.
Both contain a decimal value.
But remember this is very very important.
And even the experienced Java developer get confused with this.
And I know that you engineers are very curious.
What is IEEE 754?
So just check out the next video of it.
I have explained in depth how the float and double works, but let me show you.
Okay, so here let's say I am taking a float variable one.
Let's say I'm taking point three F right float.
Let's say variable 2.1 f.
Now I want to do a A subtraction, uh, let's say in the variable three, I want to put point three,
uh, instead of where one minus where two.
What should be the output here.
Let's see I'm printing three.
So expected is point three -0.1.
It should be 0.2 right.
What.
Let's see the output.
.200002 okay.
Now what happened.
Point three I have defined point three variable I have defined point one.
But when I subtracted both I was expecting point two.
But why it is showing 0.2000002.
Similarly will happen for the double.
Also.
That's why we always says that we never we never use float and double to encode.
In your industry.
Let's say you want you are very, very particular.
You are very, very particular about decimal.
You are very particular about decimal.
Then do not use float.
Do not use double, instead use big integer.
So you know right.
In any company which deals with currency right currency.
And even if you want to care about decimals like two decimal only right then don't use float.
Don't use double use big integer.
Right.
So this float double.
And why we need to use big integer.
So this is the next video you can check just after this one okay.
So you will get more in depth of this float and double in the next video.
Now it's a boolean.
Now let's see.
Boolean.
Boolean is your.
You can say that it just only have two values.
It's just true and it's false.
So Boolean is your only two values either true and false.
Right.
So here if you see that it is generally known as one bit true or false right.
So that's very simple Boolean.
Right.
You can have it.
You can define it.
Boolean variable name true or false.
And what is the default value.
Default value is false.
So all primitive data types are clear character byte short and long.
So this fives are your integer integral type means you can assign values, right?
Float and double is your fractional.
And then you have a boolean which is nothing but a true false non primitive.
I will cover in a separate video.
Right now let's discuss.
So type of variables I have we have covered boolean and this primitive type.
We have covered reference type.
We will see in to the next video.
Floating type just the next video in depth.
You are going to see this.
Now let's see the kind of variables the kind of variables.
And this is important.
But before this kind of variables let me first go through the types of conversion.
This is very interesting topic.
Types of conversion.
So here so now let's understand the conversion first.
Now let's do the first automatic conversion which is also known as.
Widening or Automatic conversion.
So here you know right byte is your one byte, short is two byte, integer is four byte long is your
eight byte.
Similarly your four and double right.
So from lower data type to higher data type it do automatic conversion.
Automatic conversion is for example you have integer, you have a variable equals to ten.
And now you have long it's uh let's say long.
If I assign where integer one it do automatically conversion.
Now this even though it's I defined as an integer, but now it is properly assigned because it do.
Automatic conversion.
It automatically converted this integer to long.
Let's say you have.
For example, I have taken example of byte by byte.
I have defined a variable x is ten and I have integer.
Let's say I have defined a variable name as int variable is and c.
Now I am assigning what value to integer variable x and I'm just printing System.out.println int variable
int variable.
So it will print out properly ten.
Right.
Why?
Why there is no issue.
There is no issue because automatic typecasting happen.
Automatic widening happen because this is byte is only one byte.
Integer is four byte.
So it can properly control or properly take care of its values, right?
So whenever you go from lower to higher.
Automatic conversion happens.
Right?
Whenever you go from lower to higher, automatic conversion happens.
Now let's say.
Downcasting.
Or explicit casting.
Similarly, if you go from opposite.
I'm saying integer variable equals to ten or let's say 128 or let's say ten, for example.
Then I will tell you then I'm taking a bite byte variable as integer variable.
Now if you see that it will not work.
Let me just print the statement byte variable.
Now if you see that it will not work.
Why?
Because now we are coming from longer data type integer.
As for data type, byte has only one data type.
When you come from longer data type to shorter data type, then automatic downcasting doesn't happen.
You have to manually typecast it.
The typecast is to byte.
Now if you print it, it will print ten properly.
Okay, so it will print ten.
But it has one issue.
Let's say integer has value 128 you know, right.
What is the range of byte.
What is the range of byte?
Range of byte is -128 to 127.
So definitely even though you are typecasting it, it will not contain 128.
Right.
Because its maximum value it can store is 127 itself.
So when when you are forcefully typecasting it downcasting it explicit, what it will do is what value
it will come.
It will come -128.
128 -128.
So see, it has still 127.
Now you are trying to store 128 and you are saying that, hey, no, I want into the lower data type
itself.
So what is the extra after 127 one is extra one 2127 and 128 has only one digit more extra, right?
So it will again go from kind of a loop from start after 127 it go from this.
So plus one it will go to -128.
If it is 129 then after 127 it will go to plus one start from start -128 and then 127.
So it will print -127.
So this is one of the you can say that limitation of doing a downcasting which we have to be care when
we do it.
Now let's see.
So now you know what is automatic conversion or downcasting.
Now let's see promotion during expression.
Promotion.
Let's understand with this example.
Let's say I have a bite a which is 127.
I have a bite B one.
I have a bite sum a plus b a plus b.
I am printing sum.
So now here, if you see that bite A has 127 value, bite B is one.
Hey then if I am doing a summation then we know that okay bite range as we already know that okay.
Bite range is from -128 to 127.
And we are trying to do 127 plus one.
So it should be -128 itself right.
Because we are storing in bite.
No.
Because what happened is during an expression when we cross the range from 127 is the range of a byte
right when we cross its range 127 plus one 128.
As soon as we cross its range, we become 128.
What it does it it do internal promotion.
Internal promotion is let's say now this has been converted to your integer.
So your byte short all converted to your integer.
Right.
Both byte and short converted to your integer.
So now here 127 plus one is become 128.
As soon as it reaches the top limit of this here byte, because here both are byte byte right.
This is also byte.
So the maximum range it can have is like 128 byte has only one 127 so now 128 reaches this limit, so
it do promotion to the next byte and shot.
Both are promoted to integer.
So now this is known as promoted right.
So if you want to solve it either you take it into integer and then print it right.
Otherwise if you want it to byte itself you have to do explicit downcasting to byte.
Now if you are doing R to typecasting to the byte, then you know that it will become -128 127 plus
one -128.
Right?
Otherwise, if you are, do it only in promotion it will print 128 right?
It will print 128.
So this is known as promotion.
And also one more thing I want to tell you about promotion is in an expression, if one of the data
type is higher then all this is converted to the higher one.
So this is integer.
And let's say this is a double.
Double where uh let's say 20 d right now I am doing an expression uh integer.
Let's say sum equals to a plus double where.
Now here if you see that this is an error because if in an expression this is known as expression,
you know.
Right.
Expression like any uh this a plus b n2 this thing arithmetic expression.
So any expression this is integer this is double.
So now which is the larger data type out of this integer.
And double definitely double right.
So the whole expression is now type casted to the promoted to double itself.
So the output which we will get it would be in double only.
So it cannot be taken into integer.
If you have to taken into integer, you have to do type casting int, right?
Otherwise you have to take it into double.
Right.
It would be 34 plus 20 and 0.0 something.
54.0.
Okay so promotion you are in it.
And also I have also told you the explicit casting during expression.
Right.
Uh, so the if any of the expression has higher data type like integer plus double variable, right.
The whole expression is type is now internally promoted to double.
But if you want an integer variable type you have to typecast this one.
External casting.
So I think this type of conversion is clear right.
Widening narrowing promotion.
And this one.
Now a wrapper class I will cover in with the Non-primitive primitive type with in that video.
Now let's comes to the kind of variables.
Let's take this example.
I'm defining a variable.
Let's say I this is member variable.
I'm taking an integer data type right.
Then this is a method.
Inside a method I am taking one.
Let's say I'm taking another data type as byte local variable.
This is your local variable.
Let's say it is storing 100 right?
Then another is called static.
Let's say I'm calling a static.
This is a static variable right.
And then you have it right.
Let's say 100 And right.
So this is a static variable.
Member variable.
Local variable.
And also let's take this example as another wide dummy method.
Two.
And now having having a parameters integer let's say a integer b.
And I'm doing returning something a plus b just dummy method.
Okay.
So this is integer parameter.
So this is you have a method parameter you have here local variable.
This is your static variable.
This is your member variable okay.
And there is one something called constructor variable right.
Constructor variable.
Let me also tell you so you know that constructor and all we will come into detail right once we go
more into that one.
So constructor has the same name of a class name there also.
So this is default constructor which has nothing.
We can also define as constructor with parameter.
Let's say integer a right.
And it has parameterized.
P parameterized constructor.
So these are the kind of variables.
So now here if you see that this is known as member variable.
Member variable.
Understand what is member variables.
So let's say first.
Member variables.
Member variables is let's say you have a class employee.
And like you have defined int member variable equals to ten something right.
Or maybe some other like some variable assign.
Or if you even do assign you know that for member variable default value is assigned to zero.
Right now when you create an object of it, employee object one equals to new is the keyword through
which we can create an object employee.
I created an object.
I created another object employee object two equals to new employee.
I created two object.
So when two objects are created of an employee which is object one object two.
So each object has its own copy of member variable its own copy of member Variable its own copy of member
variable.
So this object one can work on its member variable.
It can have any value.
It can have some other value.
So they have their own copy of this one.
So this is known as your member variables right.
This is known as your instance or member variable.
Then local local method.
Local variable is like which you define inside a method.
Here in this class I have defined a local variable 100.
So here if you see that this variable is only present inside this method.
After this method, this is finished after this.
So let's say somebody calls this method and this local variable is created.
If you see that once this method is finished, this local variable is also finished.
Right.
So that is known as local variable, which are created inside a particular method and its scope is within
this, within this brackets itself.
Then there is something called class variable or static variable.
This is also known as class variable y.
This is known as class variable because here if you see that if it is normal, not an static, each
object has its own copy.
But if it is static, let's say class employee.
Let's say it is static.
Integer.
Uh, let's say variable equals to let's say ten right now here.
If you see that even if you created two object object one, object two.
So now this variable.
Right?
This is only one copy exists.
One copy exists of variable equals to ten.
Both will access to it.
That's why it is known as class variable.
And if object one has to access it it will access it via class name employee dot where.
Similarly employee dot where.
So it's that's why it is known as class variable or static variable means this variable is related to
its class.
This or it is not shared among objects.
So let's say I have created a static variable which has 100, right?
And.
I am creating a student inside this.
I'll let me create first two objects.
Employee object one equals to new employee Employee object to new employee.
So now I've created two objects.
And if I print.
Object one dot.
See here.
Now this is a static variable.
Can I access the static variable through object?
No, I told you already.
Right.
It is.
Static variables are associated with class.
You cannot access with static.
Variable is not even there.
But you can access through employee class name dot static variables.
So now here if you see that.
It will print only ten no matter how many objects you created.
This class, this object static variable object is related to this class.
That's why it's known as class variable.
No matter how many objects you created, only one copy exist.
If you want to any object want to access that access through class name, but each object member variable
has they have.
They have their own copy like object one dot member variable.
Similarly, object two also have their object two also have their member variable.
Okay, so they have their own member variables, but static variable only has one copy.
Okay.
Now let's see.
Do you know right.
Member variable static variables.
Now let's see local variables also you know.
Now see the method parameter.
So whenever the method parameter is whenever you create a method you can also pass this variables.
This is known as method parameters.
What value it can hold whatever like the caller will have.
So let's say here in the student class if I am calling, let's say object one dot dummy method two and
I pass two comma five.
Two comma five.
So now here A is assigned with two and b is assigned with five.
So this is known as method parameter.
And another is constructor.
So constructor is let's say when I'm creating an object new employee this c if you see this this is
an when it is used in while creating a new object.
So here if you see that it is an default constructor.
But if I want to assign a value, also pass a value.
Also I can send ten.
Then it will call which constructor this one.
So it is parameterized constructor.
And here also we can define a variable.
So these are the different kind of variables which you can tell.
Member variable.
Static variable local variables method parameters which is also can have like kind of variables in constructor.
Also you can set a variable right.
So focus on this variable first constructor and all.
We go more deep, right?
Even in the methods.
Also, I will have a separate video methods.
Right?
In that time I will discuss the constructor, but I wanted to just mention where all this data types
and variable can come.
Okay guys.
So now till now we have covered most of the topics.
So now this is will come in second video only floating types then reference type wrapper final.
And this one I will cover in the next part of the variables video.
Okay guys, I hope uh, I know that this is a long video, but go slowly and I try to cover as much
depth as I can, right?
I go through again, if you have any doubt, feel free to ping me and I will cover this hole in the
next session.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- How FLOAT and DOUBLE  Number Stored in Memory?  |  IEEE 754 Representation ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And, uh, before proceeding, uh, please excuse my voice as I have a minor cold.
Okay, so in the last class, we have seen that we have completed the primitive types.
And I told you that the float and doubles are very important in that.
Right?
Because lot of interview question has been asked on top of this float and double.
Okay.
So now here you see that, uh, there is a float value 0.7 F, right?
So when we are printing it.
Right.
So see what values are coming is the word value is coming is 0.6999998879071, but not exactly 0.7 F.
That's the issue with the float.
And that's why we don't use IT industry.
But it makes a very good interview question like how come this value came.
So today I'm going to explain this only that how this number generally get arrived okay.
How actually it is stored in memory.
So let's go ahead.
So here in the float you know that.
Float is store 32 bit I triple E754.
In this format float stores the data.
But now what does it mean.
Right.
So out of 32 bit.
So this is the format.
One bit is for the sign right.
Whether if it is a negative negative you know it should be one for positive it would be zero okay.
Uh then next eight bits.
Eight bit is for exponent.
I'll explain you how and rest 23 bit.
23 bit is for mantissa.
Or significant?
Significant.
Generally we use the mantissa.
Okay, so I'll explain you this how the data is stored in this format with one simple example.
4.125 right.
How it got stored here.
And then we will do a revert back to this value again right.
And one I will tell you about 0.7 float value 0.75.
And this .4.125.
And you see that right when you check 0.7 what was the outcome?
0.699999 how we got it.
So we'll check for both.
One is simple one one is hard one okay.
So let's start with 4.125 float.
So when we did this how it actually stored in the memory.
So first step step one.
Okay.
So we have to store in this format.
So for this step one.
Convert it to.
Binary.
Okay.
So for how for would be converted to binary you know right.
Decimal to binary conversion.
Right.
For so two to the 402120201.
And from bottom to up.
So 100.
So four is converted to 100.
And then 0.125.125.
How you can convert it to decimal
.121252 into two.
We want to convert it to binary right.
So into two.
So 0.125 into two is your .25 right.
So we take zero and 4.25 into two, it would be 0.50.
So we have taken 0.50.50 into 21.00.
So we have taken 100 and go from top to bottom.
So it would be 0.001 okay.
So 4.125 after the step one would be 100.001 right.
4.125 okay.
So this is our step one.
Step two we need to make it in the.
Form of this one.
Point your some decimal values into two raised to power exponent.
We need to convert into this form.
So how we can convert it.
So 0.001 if I want to convert it to this form.
So point I have to bring it to ahead two two decimal ahead.
Right.
So it will become 1.00001 into since its base is two.
Now I have converted.
So this is a decimal.
Its base is two right.
So when decimal goes front so it will become two raised to power.
So here I make two step ahead right.
So two raised to power two.
If I make two step back two raise to power minus two okay.
And why two.
Why not ten.
Because it's a basis two.
So now.
So step one is converted to binary which we know.
Step two is make it in the form of one point and then the value.
So I have converted it to this two I have to make dot two step ahead.
So that's why two raised to power two.
And now it is in the form of one dot something something something okay.
Step three.
Add bias to the exponent.
So now here if you see that this is after dot this is known as mantissa.
This is known as mantissa.
This is your exponent okay.
So in the step three we have to add bias to the exponent.
So for the float.
So for the float here bias is 127 uh two raise to power seven minus one uh 127 is the bias right.
So here we add 127 and the exponent is positive two right.
So it 129 we will store it.
So now you can ask me a question right.
Hey why we need bias here.
Right.
Because let's say if it is negative let's say if it was 0.001 right.
And we want it to convert into this form and dot, we have to take it back till here let's say right.
So three steps back so I can have two raised to power minus three.
So I can represent minus three.
Right.
And we know that minus three how to represent in the sign second complement.
But here in the float right in IEEE IEEE 754 they haven't used the signed second complement to showcase
the negative.
So instead what they used is they use the bias right.
If it is minus three.
So it would be it would be stored here in the exponent would be 124.
Right.
So if it is positive.
So 127 plus two.
So 129 is what is actually stored in this exponent.
Okay.
So it step three is add bias to the exponent.
Bias is for float is 127.
Step four.
Now fill it up.
So first bit is sign bit.
So over is 4.125.
So it's a positive only.
So it's zero.
Then next eight bit is your exponent.
Now over.
My exponent is 129.
So two plus bias.
So it's a 129.
So you know right.
So eight bits 123456781248
1632 64 128.
So for 129 this should be one, this should be one.
So
12345678.
So this eight bit is now my.
Exponent.
And what I told you here is mantissa.
So what is the mantissa.
We have come up with this 12345.
12345.
And but here are total 23 bits.
So rest would be 00000000 till all 23 bits rest.
So this is how actually it is stored in the D actually memory right in IEEE IEEE 754 format.
Now let's do revert back like okay.
If we now get the value, are we getting the same value for 4.125 or not.
So first we have to convert it to we.
So this is the formula.
It's the same thing how what we did a step right.
So while taking it back we follow the same thing.
Right.
So one plus.
mantissa into two raised to power exponent minus one.
27.
So why we are subtracting one?
27 I told you we are added the bias right here we have added one plus because uh, here if you see that
this one dot we haven't done anything we leave it.
We only stored mantissa.
Right.
So that's why we are doing one plus.
So one plus mantissa and sign bit minus one is like if it is zero it will become one.
And if it is one it will be converted into minus only.
Okay.
So we have.
So this is the formula.
We have to now fill this up minus one.
So sign bit is zero zero into one.
Plus we have to compute this mantissa.
So this is the mantissa.
We have to compute it into two raised to power e.
This is your exponent.
So we know that it's uh, this is 128.
This is one, uh, so 129, is there?
Right?
Total.
129 -127.
So, you know.
Right.
So this mantissa is your after decimal.
So it is you know that it is how it how we can compute this.
It is two raised to power minus one two raised to power minus two two raise to power minus three two
raised to power minus four two raised to power minus five.
Likewise.
So one is that two raised to power minus five.
Right?
So it is one raised to power like this.
So now if we go this so minus one raised to power zero one into one plus one raised to power two raised
to power five would be .03125 into two to solve this one.
So it would be 1.03125 into four.
And if you multiply it 4.125.
So now here if you see that when I change for 4.1 to 5, the when we fetch it from the memory, I got
4.125.
It's 4.125.
Now let's see.
What does it come?
4.125.
Right.
But now let's see a little bit difficult.
One.
Right.
Now I'm showing you the little difficult 1.7 F right.
So here 0.7 F is step one.
What is the step one.
Convert it to binary.
Convert it to.
Binary.
So 0.7 into 21.4.
So we have taken a one.
And it become 0.4 into
2.80.8
into 21.6.
So we have taken a 1.6 into two, 1.2, 1.2 into two, 0.4.
Right.
So we have taken a zero here.
And if you see that we are now repeating again from 0.4.
Right.
So 0.4 into 20.8.
So again if you see that it's almost same now right.
So it will be like for and from here to here.
So 0.7 would be like
.101100110.
Then from here again repeating 01100110011.
So it would be just like this okay.
So this is the first step.
First step is convert it to the binary.
Second step is we have to make it in the form of like this into two raise to power exponent.
Okay.
So now here we have to make.
So dot should be.
Now move to here.
So it should be
1.011001100110.
Like continuously go on into two raise to power only one shift to the right.
I have done right.
So two raised to power minus one.
Okay now what is the third step?
Add bias to the exponent 127 plus minus one exponent is minus one right.
So it would be 126.
So this is your exponent.
Now let's store it in the memory.
So we are storing 0.7 f.
So it's a positive.
So it is zero then 126 eight bits right?
126 okay, now your is mantissa.
So mantissa is
0110011001100110.
So 23 bit.
Right.
So 123456789 1011 1221 2223.
So till this.
So this is how we store it in the memory.
Now take it.
Revert back in the form of minus one into sign into one plus mantissa into two.
Raised to power exponent -127.
So minus one raised to power zero into one.
Plus we will compute mantissa two.
Raised to power E is 126 126 -127 okay.
So now let's first, uh, so minus one raised to power.
Zero is one into one plus one mantissa.
We have to compute into two raised to power minus one.
Okay.
So now let's compute mantissa.
So you know right mantissa.
This is two raised to power minus one two raised to power minus two minus three.
This is minus four minus five minus six.
Minus seven minus eight minus nine.
This is minus ten.
-11.
-12.
-13.
-14.
-15.
-16.
-17.
-18.
-19.
-2021.
-22.
-23.
So this is we have to compute the mantissa.
So one is at minus one minus two minus three.
So one raised to power.
Plus then six and seven two raised to power six, seven, ten and 11.
Plus like this.
Right?
Ten.
11.
14.
15.
18.
19.
14.
15.
18.
19.
I think 22 and 23.
Right.
So two raised to power.
This is what we have is .25 plus.
This is computed as .125 plus uh this is computed as uh this is computed as uh
.015625
plus this is computed as
.0078125.
This is computed as plus.
.000976562.
Similarly, we have to keep adding all these things.
So I am just uh computed till value here.
Right.
You can add all to get an exact value.
So I might get very similar to .699 something, but not exactly the same because I'm not computing more
ahead of it till two raised to power ten.
Now if you sum it up, what is the value you are getting?
.399414062.
So this is your mantissa.
Uh
.399414062.
Right.
So it would be your one plus.
Uh, 1.399414062
into one.
Raised to power two.
Right.
What?
You get it here?
Here.
You will get it.
0.699707031.
So here not exactly like 0.699999 because I haven't computed this and all, but if you do it all you
will get more like this.
But now if you see that we we try to compute it for point seven F, we store it in the memory and we
try when we try to get it back, what we got .6999 right.
So this is how generally the computation happen.
I hope you got it right.
So this is for float.
Double is exactly same.
So double is.
64 bit right.
So here instead of this.
So this for double It would be one bit for the sign, 11 bit is for the exponent and rest is for your
mantissa.
Right.
And what was the bias for double.
Right.
11 bit right.
So two raised to power ten minus one 1023.
That would be the bias for double.
Okay I think you guys are you know right how the float value is stored in the memory.
How to retrieve it.
Right.
Uh, so it's very frequently asked in the Java interview questions.
Right.
Even sometimes experience ah get confused with this.
So do practice it right.
Instead of this we use Bigdecimal Bigdecimal.
Bigdecimal is like if you store like 4.7 it output would be 4.7, not like 4.699999 something.
Right?
So always use Bigdecimal while you are dealing with the decimals value.
Okay guys, see you soon.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java Variables - Part2 | Reference/Non-Primitive Data Types in Depth ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So let's complete today our variables Java variables part two.
So in the part one we have looked in depth our primitive data types and also how the float memory representation
happens.
And I hope you like that video guys.
So today is we are going to see a very very important concept which is reference data type.
So there are two types of data types you already know primitive and non primitive which is also known
as reference.
So it is also known as non primitive data types.
Right.
So I'll cover today non primitive data type wrapper classes.
And what is autoboxing and unboxing and what is constant variable.
And with that these three things we will complete our Java variables.
Right.
So what is the next set of video.
Next set of video would be methods.
And then main thing memory The management and garbage collector.
Garbage collector.
Okay, so this two upcoming videos after this Java variables.
Right?
So let's start with the reference data type.
So what are the different type of reference data type.
The first is class.
Second is string.
Third is interface fourth is array.
These are the main reference data type.
But first we have to understand what is reference.
Hey what is reference.
Okay so now let's understand with the class.
So I'll explain you this reference concept by the help of a class and others would become very very
easy for you.
Okay so now let's go with the class first.
So now you already know that how to create a class.
So this is the keyword to create a class.
So let's say I am creating an employee class.
So I have created a class employee.
And in this class you know that a class has two things properties and functions.
So this is the property employee ID.
And these are the functions which are nothing but a getter and setters.
Get employee ID so it will return the employee ID set employee ID.
Whatever the employee ID you will set, it will set it right.
So it's a very, very simple, very, very basic class I have created employee.
Now how to create an object of this.
So how to create an object.
You know that new keyword is used to create an object.
So now I am creating an I am in another class student right.
So this let's say this is one method inside that I am creating an object of this employee class.
So how I created the class name.
What is the object name which I wanted to give equals to new the class name.
Right.
So with that, what it will do is it will create a new object.
Now we need to understand what is reference in this.
So here this is heap memory.
So there are different type of memories which I will cover in the memory management heap stack.
And how the garbage collector manage this memory for Java.
Right.
So don't worry about heap and stack right.
But currently for understanding the reference understand this.
There is a memory called heap memory.
And whenever you do new whenever you created an object new employee here in this case.
So what you are doing is you are creating one object.
Here you are actually storing saving certain memory.
Right.
So let's say I'm just saying that let's say it has an address of memory AIJ1246987 something.
So this is a memory, right?
Now what you have done is you have created an object with this new keyword inside a heap.
Memory and space is allocated for this object.
And employee object is what employee object is nothing but a reference.
So employee object which you created.
This is a reference to this space which is created in memory.
So employee object is a reference.
It holds a reference.
So this holds a reference to the actual memory Right.
So that's why it is called as reference data type.
Reference data type.
So means whatever the objects you gonna create that will be created into heap memory and.
Whatever the variable's name which you have defined those actually holds a reference to.
The actual memory.
Understood.
So now I have created a class.
Now when I created an object new employee a memory has been stored for here.
Right.
And this memory reference is hold it into this object emp object emp object.
So this holds the reference to this one.
Okay.
Now understand this.
So you if you are familiar with C I think C++.
So you might be aware of something called pointers.
Pointers I think are when you pass into a method.
So this is method you Who passed.
So you passed via underscore this and percent let's say some object.
So what ultimately it is passing is passing the address.
Right.
So in Java there is no concept called pointers.
Right.
So you might be aware of pass by value and pass by reference.
Right.
So if you are familiar with C++ you know that whenever you pass through under this thing and this means
you are passing a address which is passed by reference.
But in Java everything is passed by value.
Everything is passed by value.
There is no concept of pass by reference in Java.
Okay, there is no concept called pointer.
So how does this, uh, so you know that there are lot of advantage of passing a address or pointer,
right.
Because if anything is change in this method with a equals to.
Let's say here a is ten.
Now you change here 20.
So in that above method a value has been changed.
This all advantage used to come while passing a pointer.
Now we are saying that hey in Java when everything is passed by value how we get this functionality.
That's what because of this data type, reference data type which is non primitive data type.
So I told you now this objects holds the reference to the actual memory.
Now let's say I have created a new employee an object of this class.
So what will happen is a space has been stored in the heap memory.
Now what I have defining is employee object dot employee id equals to ten.
So this has employee ID.
So now what id I'm saying is employee ID.
I am setting it as now.
Ten.
Okay, so employee object dot.
So this is just nothing but a reference to this.
So in this memory employee ID is set to ten.
Now.
Now I am calling a method modify this method I am calling and what I am passing this employee object.
This employee object.
Okay.
So this modify method accept this object employee which is of class type right.
So employee is a class right.
So it is accepting this method.
So now here in this case what will happen is this employee this this is also an variable right.
So this employee now it holds a reference of what employee object which is getting passed here.
So in the modify method I am passing a employee object.
So this will also hold a reference to this employee.
Now in this method I am saying employee dot employee ID to 20.
So employee dot.
So employee dot means this memory dot employee ID change it to 20.
So now it's change it to 20.
Right when I came out of this method.
And when I am the previous method and I'm printing system dot dot println employee object.
So this is the employee object dot.
So reference to it.
This is the memory employee id.
So now it will print the employee ID 20.
So output would be here 20 okay.
So now you see that because of this reference data type we achieve something.
What we use to achieve through pointers in C++ I think right in C++ only we have this pointer concept.
So even though everything is passed by value in Java, we can still achieve through this all this thing
through reference data types Okay, so this is clear, right?
What?
How it is able to change this thing.
Because everything is nothing but a reference in objects.
So whenever you create a object, new employee a memory is stored.
Now whatever you are storing in the reference.
So you access it this memory via reference, whatever the object's name, variable name you have given
dot employee ID ten.
So it will be reference to this.
Now let's say I am creating another, uh, this thing employee.
This employee.
Object one.
Let's say I am creating obj two equals to EMP object.
Employee object.
So employee object was pointing to this.
Now object two.
Also obj two also will point to the same memory.
Now if you change anything in object two dot 2.mp id equals to 30.
This will change.
Okay so currently all these three points to this memory.
So that's why it is called as reference data type reference.
I think you now very much clear what does why this class is called as reference.
Because it holds a reference to the actual memory okay.
This is clear.
Now let's come to the string.
Very very important right.
So let's come to the string.
So now here if you see that even though string is already defined in Java like like in primitive int
float Boolean.
Similarly string is also defined in Java.
But why we consider this as a Reference data type.
Why?
Why not primitive.
Okay.
So let's understand this.
Why we considered a string as a reference data type.
So you know that we have a heap.
Memory inside a heap.
Memory there is something called.
A string constant pool.
This is very very important.
So understand this very very clearly that strings are immutable.
Strings are immutable.
Right.
And there are a concept called string literals.
So you need to understand is why strings are immutable.
And what are string literals trills.
Okay, right.
And why?
They are coming as a reference data type, even though it is defined in Java.
So see here.
The class is like you defined it.
User defined it.
Right?
We as a programmer we define it.
So currently I have created a class employee.
Maybe I can create a class.
Let's say some other class.
Let's say bird right.
So I can define this class.
But here if you see in Java it has defined a string.
But even though Java is defined why it is considered as reference, why not primitive?
I'll tell you why.
So before that, you have to understand that why strings are immutable and what are string literals.
So now let's say you are creating a string variable a string, let's say S1.
I'm creating one object S1.
Hello.
So this hello which we I have created.
This is known as string literal, right?
So this will go inside this string constant pool.
So this will go here.
Hello.
Right.
Now let's say I'm creating another string.
String S2 equals to hello again.
So what it will do is internally it will not create another hello.
First it will check the string pool.
Constant.
Hey does this literal present or not.
If literal is present then what will do is both will point to the same reference to this.
Hello.
So S1 is pointing to this hello literal.
And when you created a another S2 with the hello, what it will do is it will.
Inside a heap there is something called string constant pool.
This is your string constant pool.
So it will go and first check.
Hey, does hello literal is already present or not?
If it is already present, S2 will also point to the same, right?
So now let's see this.
Let's.
And before that I'll show you an example.
But if I create like this string S3 equals to new string.
Hello.
So what it will do is now I am creating a hello again but using new keyword.
So whenever you use a new keyword it will not be considered as a string literal.
It created another object inside a heap which has the word hello, right?
So now here S3 is holding the reference to this one, not the string constant one.
Right.
So now let's see this with an example.
Okay.
So now here let's say that I have I am creating one string S1.
Hello.
So what it might have done is in the string constant pool it have put this literal.
Now I am doing string S2.
Again I am doing hello.
So what it might have done is it will check before uh creating another hello.
It would have checked first the string constant pool and one string literal is already present.
So now S2 will also point to the same.
Now if I do.
S1 equals to equals to S2.
So when you do equals to equals to, what it will do is it checks whether they both point to the same
memory.
Right.
Same memory or not.
So will it.
Yes.
They both point to the same memory in the string constant pool, so it should return true here if you
see that it is returning.
True.
But if I do s1 dot equals s2.
Now it will check the value inside that memory.
So it is hello for s2.
Also it is pointing to the same.
So it would be hello.
So this will also be true.
So this will also comes true.
Now see this.
Now I am creating S3 equals to new string.
Hello.
Now I am doing let's say only now I am saying let's say S1 equals S3.
First I am doing equals.
So what equals will match is the content.
Does S1 and S3 has the same content?
Yes.
Both have.
Hello.
So it will be true only.
So it would be true only.
But if I do now S1 equals to equals to S3.
Are they both pointing to the same memory in the heap?
No, because in the new you know that it would create a separate memory.
So it would be false.
So you understand right.
The key major concept here.
So strings are immutable.
So immutable means when you say that hey S1 now you changing it to hello world.
So it will first check.
Hey Hello world is there.
No.
So it will create another hello world.
But here if you see that it didn't change the previous literal hello.
Now S1 will change and point to the hello world, but hello is still present.
Hello is not changed.
So that's why I say that strings are immutable.
Once created, they cannot be changed, right?
So if you see that here S1 is just holding a reference inside a string constant pool, right?
For a literal or if you create it through new, it will create an object inside a heap, not inside
a string constant.
So you are properly clear in the string.
Why?
Why string is considered as a reference data type, right?
Why?
Because whatever the variable you are constructing, it holds a reference either to a string literal
or to a object which you have created through new.
And what are the string and why they are immutable.
Strings are immutable because whatever the value you have created through string literals.
So let's say you have created through first hello.
It will go inside string constant pool right.
So currently S one is pointing to hello.
Now I am changing S one equals to something.
Let's say s j hello would still be there because s two now pointed to hello, but s j is not present
into their string constant pool.
So it will create s j.
And now s one is now pointing to.
S one is now pointing to s j.
But here if you see that hello is still present.
Hello is not changed, right.
It's just a reference is changed for s one to this one.
And the value is still present into string constant.
Right.
So it's a constant right.
So it just hold a reference.
And I think you are very much clear like what is the string literals.
String literals which are present inside a string constant pool.
Right.
And you are very much clear, right?
How?
With the example which I have given you is a string equals string two and string one equals to equals
to S2.
When we do dot equals it compares the content which is present.
When you do equals equals is.
Check whether they are pointing to the same memory or not, the same memory or not.
Right.
So do practice it.
And then you will understand that this string properly.
Okay.
Now let's understand the interface.
So see interface is also a reference data type very very similar to class.
Nothing much difference.
So now you know that how to create an interface that we can create an interface through a keyword interface.
So I have created a person and one method in the interface I have created a profession right.
And I have created two childs of this interface.
One is teacher.
And if you see that this teacher implements the person.
Similarly, I've created an engineer and it implements it implements the person.
And when anybody implements the interface, it has to override its method.
It has to define because here in the interface it is just a method.
You have to give a proper implementation here.
So here for the profession in the teacher what is the profession.
It is returning teaching.
And in the engineer it is returning software engineer.
So I have created the interface now here in another class.
Now I want to create an object of it.
Right.
So how I can do it I can do in this four different ways.
Let's say I want to create an object of this engineer.
So what I can do is new engineer.
So what it will do is in the heap it will create a engineer object.
Engineer object.
Right.
And where I am storing a reference to person.
So here a person is a parent interface, right?
So a person object holding a reference to this engineer.
Right.
So this is valid.
Similarly I am creating a person another object which is a teacher.
It it holds an object of what it holds an object of.
Teacher.
New teacher.
So I'm creating an object called teacher.
Teacher.
Class.
Object.
And this reference is hold in a variable teacher which is of type again person.
Right.
So as you already know that we can save the object.
We can store the object of a child classes in a parent one.
Right.
Or either you can also store the teacher itself itself into a teacher itself.
You can store its object into the same class itself.
For engineer.
You can store inside an engineer itself, or you can store an object of engineer into its parent reference.
Personal right.
But this is wrong.
You cannot create an object of.
Let's say I am creating a new person, new person in an interface.
You cannot create an object of an interface.
This is wrong.
You can't do new person.
You cannot create an object of an interface.
Why?
You can't create an object of an interface?
Because interface Just define a blueprint.
And like a method which has to be implemented by the child classes.
So child classes has the implementation.
Right.
So okay so this person has this function.
So it implement this.
You can create an object of this.
You can create an object of it.
And this object you can keep it inside a parent one.
Right.
And you know now right.
Why you can even though you are created an object of an engineer, why you can keep it into a parent
one because it is just a reference, right?
Even though this you are not creating an object of a person, you are just holding a reference to an
engineer object, right?
And since it's a parent, it can hold a reference to its child.
So here teacher again a parent holds a reference to a child object Okay.
So this is interface is another type of reference data type.
Now let's see array.
So what does array is.
Right.
So array is nothing but a sequence of memory which stores the same data type.
So let's say I am creating one integer array.
Integer array new int.
Let's say for five.
So this is the way to create an array.
This is one dimension array.
Single array.
So what I have done is I have created
A4512341234501234.
Let's say this is the index of an array.
And this is a memory.
So I have booked created five memory locations inside a heap and this is the array A.
So this holds a reference to this array.
And this array contains.
These are in continuous uh sequence.
And they will hold a single data type.
So what data type it will hold I created a integer.
So it will create integer type like five 610 120.
Right.
So this is the way to create an array in.
Then you can either have like int a or like this or n like this.
Also both are correct way to create an array right.
So here I can create like this new int five.
Right.
So this is also applicable.
What and what you can do is if you want to assign this.
So now you have created a memory of five blocks of n type.
Now you want to fill this.
How you will fill this a zeroth zeroth index you have put let's say ten.
So ten would be store here.
A let's say three index three.
Let's say 40.
So it index 340 will store.
So this way you can do the array new int.
You have defined the capacity of the array and then define this.
There is another way is like int array.
You don't have to do like this new int five.
You can just go like this 30 2010 4050.
So what it will do is internally Automatically.
What it will do is it will see that okay, how many variables one, two, three, four, five.
So it will create a space of five and put into index zero 30.
So it will put 30 here, 20 here, ten here, 40 here 50 here.
Right.
So this is also a way of doing it.
So this is also correct.
You can create like this first memory five and then assign the value for each index.
That is also correct okay.
So there is another called 2D array.
So 2D array is like you would be defining like this a either before the variable and after the variable.
Also correct.
Ah this is also correct.
You can use any okay.
Now you can let's say new integer.
This is your row.
This is your let's say column five by four.
So consider this now a 2D.
So five.
This is your first row.
This is your column.
So by default value of int is zero.
So it would be like it will be created like this.
So five row 12345 and four means column 41234.
So this is your 2D array.
Now you want to fill the value in this how you will fill array.
Let's say I want to put into 012340123.
Now let's say I want to put some value here.
So this is two two.
So two two is 20 let's say.
So row is two.
So 012 column is 2012.
So here now I am putting 20.
So it would be changed to 20.
So RR you can put let's say uh uh, one comma, 330.
So row is one, row is one, column is three, column is three.
So this value is you change to 30.
So this way you can set.
And another way direct way is like how we did in uh this one is you can also do like this.
You can define while declaring variable itself let's say one comma five comma, seven comma, four comma,
two comma three.
You can type like this.
So here what it will create is like 157423.
It created like this.
So two rows.
So there are two rows and three columns 123123.
So it constructed like this internally.
Now you can access like the same uh one comma two.
So one row.
So this is zero one second column 012.
So this value you will get it.
Okay.
So this is how you create a array.
And you already know that y array is a reference data type.
Because array it's uh holds a reference to the actual memory.
Right.
So whatever the value you change it will change in the memory itself.
So this is your array.
See in this this is very very important.
This so many like you should be very very clear about the string constant pool.
Right.
This is very important when you work with strings.
Right.
So how this thing works.
So go again this video you will definitely learn uh just practice create try to create this S1, S2
compare them right.
Are their addresses same or not?
I told you how you can check double equals to dot equals.
Check the content value double equals to check are they are the same memory in the heap or string constant
pool or not.
Okay.
So reference data type is clear class string interface array.
And how in Java everything is passed by value.
Nothing is passed by reference.
But because of a reference data type we can achieve what all within C++ with we can achieve through
pointer.
Okay, now let's move to the wrapper class.
Wrapper class.
Okay.
Now you can ask hey what is wrapper class.
So in wrapper class we can understand it through two things Autoboxing and unboxing.
Autoboxing and unboxing.
So you know that there are eight primitive types eight primitive types int Care.
Short byte.
Long float.
Double boolean 12345678.
So there are eight primitive types.
So in Java, for each eight primitive type we have the respective reference type.
Or you can say that wrapper.
Int we have integer care.
We have a character short we have short byte.
We have this class long.
We have this float.
We have this double.
Is this boolean.
Is this.
Now you can ask me hey why we need for each eight primitive type why we need their respective reference
type, which is known as wrapper.
Right?
Why?
I told you an advantage of reference data type, right?
If you have understand this reference data type properly, you got the advantage.
So there are two main reason of introducing this wrapper classes for primitive.
Why?
First is you got the advantages like in a memory or in a method.
You get the capability like if you pass, if you pass the object and you change it here, ultimately
it will change the memory itself, right?
Because objects refer to the actual address in the memory.
Right?
So here though I have a ten here I have changed it to 20.
But in the previous method if I printed it it will print 20.
So this is the advantage which you cannot get in primitive because in primitive.
So let's say I have int ten here int a equals to ten.
Now I am passing into the modify method let's say int x right.
I'm now changing here x equals to 20.
Now here I am printing System.out.println A which is ten.
So what it will print.
It will print 10 to 10 only not 20 which I have changed right.
So primitive data type is like they are not stored in a heap.
I will tell you in the memory management.
So primitive data type is stored in a stack.
So it is stored in a stack memory right.
So a equals to ten when it is passed to the method int x.
So x has received is like ten.
Now the x value is changed to 20.
So x has value changed to 20.
Now this method finish this from this stack.
This x gone.
And what is this value a.
So A is again ten.
Okay So in primitive type, primitive stores data in a stack and it goes like this.
So there are a lot of things which can which might be needed that, hey, you want to pass the object
into another method, another class.
And there are something change so that need to be reflected.
So that can only happen through a reference data type.
So that's why whenever you need a primitive data type a capability, and you want to pass it to another
method where something modify happen and you want to reflect, you can use this right reference data
type.
Second thing, what are the second advantage?
First advantage I have told you that, uh, change in the like, uh, reference reference capability.
Right.
Second, uh, advantage of using a wrapper here is like all the collections which we will see in the
later videos, the collections.
The very very important ArrayList HashMap.
There are so many Java collections which we have.
They all work on object only reference data type.
They work on reference data type objects.
They do not work on primitive.
So if you want to work or have a data of any type and you want to work with a collection, you want
to create a collection of integer.
You can't create and use this since because collections can only work with an object reference data
type.
So you have to use integer.
So that's why for each primitive type, there is a wrapper class provided in Java, which can help you
to achieve the reference type capability which you wanted for the primitive also.
So let's say you have defined int a equals to ten.
Now when you change it to this integer, it's wrapper integer.
Let's say a one equals to a.
So this is what we are doing is primitive two primitive to its wrapper class.
Primitive wrapper class.
This is known as autoboxing.
If I do this integer x equals to 20.
Now I'm creating int.
Let's say x one equals to x.
So now what I'm doing is wrapper class to.
Wrapper class to primitive opposite.
This is called unboxing.
That's the difference.
Simple.
But the major thing you have to understand is why we need a wrapper class for all eight primitive data
types.
We have a wrapper class there which has an kind of an object.
Why we need it.
Because of that reference capability that it holds a reference to the actual memory, and if anything
change in another method, it will change into the memory and reflect it in both the methods.
Right.
Second is all the Java collections works only with objects, which is reference data type, not with
primitive data type.
Okay, you got wrapper classes.
Then there is something called constant variable which is the another constant variable.
So now you know that uh, in a class let's say employee.
You know that if you can create a static I have already told you the static variable.
Right.
Let's say you have created a static, uh, int uh, employee ID equals to ten, let's say.
So you already know that static from the previous session.
So let's say you have created two objects now.
Employee object one.
Employee object two.
So this static right.
So here let's say this belongs to a class.
This belongs to a class.
So this m id equals to ten.
This belongs to.
So object one also use the same employee ID.
Object two also uses the same employee ID object because it is static and because it is static.
It belongs to a class.
So no matter how many objects you created of this class, all will hold this.
But is it a constant?
No, it is not constant.
If it change, if this object change it to 20, it will change it to 20.
If this object change it to 40.
It will change it to 40.
So how to make it constant.
So we will add final also.
So public static final.
So once you created a final means if you have defined it ten it will be ten only.
Now if you try to change it like say employee ID equals to 20.
No this will be a compilation error.
You can't change the final thing.
So now this is a constant.
This is known as constant variable.
How you can define a constant variable.
Static final.
And you know that in the previous I told you the how you can define a constant variable.
What is the correct way.
Employee ID in the capital let's say ten.
So and so.
Now static means only one copy can exist no matter how many objects you create.
Final make it like no copy can change.
They can only read it this value, but they cannot change it.
They cannot change it.
So now this employee ID is nothing but a constant.
This is known as constant.
This is known as constant variable.
By putting static and final.
Okay.
So that's pretty much on the variables part.
So this is what about variables.
So now you I think you are pretty much clear about uh different type of variables.
How to declare them their naming conventions, primitive data types, reference types now kind of variables,
conventions, uh, conversions, wrappers and final and static variables I told you.
Okay guys.
So that's pretty much on variable.
And now the next video would be on the methods.
And after that we will do memory management and garbage collector okay.
Okay guys.
See you.
Bye.

--- Java Methods - Part1 | Method Definition, System & User Defined Method Type etc. ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to cover the methods in Java.
And the next set of video would be after method would be constructor.
And after that memory management.
Very very important okay.
So today what I will be covering in the methods is what is method.
I think you might already know it how the method is declared.
I think you already know it, but few things I would tell about access specifiers and all which we might
have not seen yet.
So there is one more thing which I will cover in a separate topic exception handling topic exception
thrown.
So these two orange topics I am going to cover in their respective video itself.
Right?
So we will go into in depth and different types of method.
We have so many different type of method, we will go slowly on each one and the variable arguments
which is also very important.
Okay.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So by the time you.
We have already covered variables and in the fundamentals and all, you might already seen this method.
You already get a flavor of it, right.
So what is method?
Method is used to perform certain tasks.
So you have one method.
So let's say this is method.
You give some input.
It will do some task and return some output right.
So method is used to perform certain tasks.
So what is in a more uh you can say that in a proper definition we can say that it's a collection of
instruction that perform some specific task collection of instruction.
So like one instruction could be, hey, get this thing.
So one instruction could be, hey, some this two things.
So it could be a collection.
So collection of instruction makes a method which allow it to do perform certain tasks.
And what is the advantage of method is it can be used to bring the code readability and reusability.
So I will tell you with this example.
So take this class public class calculation.
Very basic class we have created.
And in that I have created one method.
So this is what our method is.
So this is what method is some okay.
So here what I am doing is inside this some I am passing two arguments variable and variable to.
And what I am doing is just doing a summation and logging some, doing some logging stuff and returning
that.
What would be the total sum.
So this is known as method right.
So this is known as method.
And it is used to perform certain tasks.
So what task it is doing.
It is doing some addition Addition of two numbers.
So you give two numbers, it will add it and return.
So it is doing certain tasks right.
And it's a collection of instruction.
So collection of instruction.
So this is instruction one right.
It add the two values.
It is instruction two.
It is also doing some logging.
So here I'm just printing on the console.
But it is let's say some logging I am doing right.
So consider the instruction two.
There could be many more instruction.
And here I'm finally returning right.
So it's a collection of instructions okay.
So now I also said that this method help you to achieve the reusability.
Right.
How how it will help you to achieve reusability.
So check this thing.
So I have write this method some.
Now let's say this is another method.
Get price of a pen and price of a pen.
Let's say what is the price of a cap is ₹2.
What is the price of a pen body?
Let's say ₹5.
And I now want to do the sum.
So here.
If you see that I have invoked this sum method and pass this two and ₹5.
It will do some two plus five.
It will return seven here.
And total pen price would be here.
Seven now.
And it will return that.
So here what you have seen is instead of doing writing the same code here again I have reused this.
Now let's say if there is another method public int, let's say uh get uh something get age combined
sum I have to get a combined age.
Let's say that sum method and I have let's say uh, younger sister age, younger sister age, let's
say two in older sister age five something and I can still use the same, same method.
So what I'm trying to say is that the same method, the same method can be reused multiple times.
You don't have to write this piece of code again and again inside another method.
You can reuse it.
So it brings the code reusability, right.
And also the readability is become easier because now you know that you by the method name itself,
you will clarify a sum.
So you will get a intention that okay, it might be doing some addition and all its logical relative
stuff we will put inside this method.
Okay.
So you got what is method.
Now let's say how to declare a method.
So see this is the method declaration.
So this line.
So it has certain things which we have.
So what is the first thing?
So first thing which we have is access specifier.
So this is your.
Access specifier this one.
Okay.
So what what is access specifier.
So access specifier can be of four types.
One is public second is private.
Third is protected and fourth is default.
What is public.
What public says public says that a method can be accessed through any class in any package.
Now you must might ask me hey, what is package?
What do you mean by package?
So let me show you here.
So let's say this is a very simple I have created one package sales department.
So what does package means is package is like a Collection of.
Logical.
Or you can say that similar classes.
Right.
You group them together.
So here I have created one package sales department.
Inside that, like all the sales department related classes I have put inside the invoice order and
anything, let's say I want, uh, human resource related classes so I can create one package package.
Let's say I will give it human resource.
Right.
So now this is my another package.
So now inside that I will create uh, certain classes like uh, what does Human Resource might have
like, uh application or say that job portal.
Something.
Right.
So human resource is maintaining the job portal.
So we have certain job portal, right?
We might have another, uh, class can be like in human resource.
They might have certain applications.
So they have a lot of applications which comes in.
So you got it.
Like so I have created one package and now all similar kind of classes I am putting inside that package.
Okay.
So now what does public says that if you have created any method public, if you have created any method
public what it says, a method can be accessed through any class in any package means like a global.
So let's say I have created I'm creating one method here.
So let's say I'm creating with public, with right with public.
And let's say I'm creating uh invoice.
Get invoice.
Let's say get invoice.
And I am doing nothing.
Just printing that.
Inside invoice method.
Right?
So now here I am inside.
Let's say job portal.
In job portal I am creating any method that say get.
Invoice for job get.
Invoice for maintaining job portal.
So let's say they are saying that we are maintaining the job portal and we have to get some invoice
for it.
We have to pay some price.
So now it just some logical name I come with.
Okay.
So now I told you that if you have defined a public method, it can be accessed anywhere in any class,
any package.
So now invoice method in this invoice class, and this method is in which class?
Invoice class.
In which package?
Sales department.
Package.
Now I am trying to access this method inside.
Where in human resource package in job portal class.
Right.
So how I can access it?
I have to create an object of this invoice invoice object.
And now I am calling invoice object dot get invoice.
So here if you see that I am able to access this method okay.
Even in the different package different class it is possible.
What does private means.
Private means that it can be accessed by methods only in the same class.
Now let's say that same example invoice if I change it to private.
What does private says?
That it can only be accessed by the methods in the same class.
So let's say in the same class I have another method.
Let's say uh, get uh let's say print invoice.
Now it has to call this method let's say get invoice.
So here if you see that even get invoice method is private.
Still, uh, since I am in a same class, I am able to invoke it no problem, but will now be able to
invoke this method from outside this class and outside this different package here.
See, it's showing the error.
What error?
It's saying that make invoice public.
Right.
So you got it.
When you create any method private it can only be accessed within a same class Okay, now let's say.
What do you mean by protected?
Protected says that a method can be accessed by other classes in the same package.
Other classes, but in same package, and other subclasses in different package.
Let me tell you.
Now let's say you have created it, now protected.
So now when you have created protected.
So what it is trying to say is that now I can access in other class, but in the same package.
So in the sales department, even if there are any other class, let's say order, I have here some
let's say get order.
Here I can access the invoice object equals to new invoice.
I can access the get invoice.
See, even though it is protected.
Because when you created a protected, this method can be accessed by other class, but in same package.
See order is in the same package as invoice.
I can access it, but can I access in different package in human resource?
Can I access it?
No, you can't access it.
But what protected says that hey, your subclasses in different package can access it.
Subclasses mean child.
So you have your parent class and then your child class.
So child class is known as subclasses.
So even though your subclasses are in different package, they only can access.
It means let's say if job portal is child of invoice.
Let's say if Job portal is your child of invoice then it should be able to access it.
So now what we have done is job portal.
Is your child of this thing?
Now?
Will it be able to access this method?
Let's see.
Now, this is your one method here.
Now I want what is the method in the invoice?
This is the protected method, right?
Get invoice.
So we just need to let's say get invoice here.
See.
So I am able to access the protected.
I am able to access the protected method in different package.
Invoice is in sales department package.
But I am accessing it in job portal.
Why?
How come?
Because it is a child.
Now only in that case.
For protected method, you can only access it in different only if it is child.
Otherwise in same package.
Even it is not a child.
You can access it.
Okay.
Now the fourth one is default.
Default says that.
So let's say sometime you don't give anything.
Now I am not giving anything.
So when you don't give anything by default it considered as default, right?
If you do not mention anything, then default access identifier.
Access specifier is used.
Right.
And what it will use it can only be accessed by classes in same package.
Right.
Now here I haven't defined protected right.
So by default what it will be used access specifier default.
And when default is used means this method can only be invoked from same package.
Different classes in same package.
So order will order be able to call it?
Yes, because it is in same package like sales department.
Sales department has two classes invoice and order.
So order would be able to call it.
But now human resource package will job application.
Job portal would be able to call it even though it is a child.
No it shows error right?
Even though it is a child class again it would won't be able to call it right.
So you understood it.
So very simple.
Just visit it one more time and try to implement it very easy.
Public means kind of global.
You can access it from anywhere.
Private is simple.
Only in the same class you can access it.
Protected is same package and child classes from different package.
Default is simple in the same package all the classes can access it.
Okay, so this access is specifier I think should be clear.
now.
Next is your return type.
This part is your known as.
Return type.
So return type tells like what your method is going to return after doing the computation.
Okay so here in the invoice example what I am returning here I am returning void.
Void means you are not returning anything.
Let's say if I want to return true false so I can give boolean, I can return either true or return
false, right?
So this is known as return type that after computation of your method what ultimately you will return
out of this method okay.
And if you are not returning anything, if your method does not return anything, what it should be
used as.
Void.
Void means returning nothing.
So see?
Even though it is a void, it is not returning anything.
You can use it.
Even if you want to use return, you can use it like this.
Like only return.
Semicolon.
This is also known as nothing.
Do nothing like finish it without returning anything.
Or either you can't even write it, don't write it or write it if you want.
You can also do it like this.
Okay, but it should not return any value like false or 5 or 6.
So let's say three.
It is okay if it is int, but if it is void, either you should not define it anything or it is like
this.
Okay.
Now let's come to the third one is your method name.
So now this is your.
Method name.
So what is the name of the method you should give.
So for everything.
So this is a naming convention.
So I'm telling you the naming convention how you should give a name to a method.
It should be verb.
So you know that.
What is verb.
So what I understand is like you should it should always be kind of an action, right?
Certain this method will do something.
So that's why it's like get uh, get data right.
Print invoice.
So kind of doing something right.
Get age, get ID right.
So some kind of action.
Right.
So this is what generally the method is.
And also the method name.
When you do always start with a small a small letter like your method name should not be like this.
Get employee Details.
It should not be like this.
It should not start from capital.
It should start from small.
Okay.
And if there are more than one word, it should be CamelCase.
So start with the small get then second word should be capital get employee, then details would be
again D capital details okay so that is your how you should define a method name.
And then you have a arguments.
So this is your arguments.
Or you can say that parameter list.
Parameter list.
Okay.
So in the parameter I think as if you have already seen the variable uh video, you might already know
the parameter.
I have covered that in there.
So like whenever you create a method.
So here in this method right here in the invoice or let's say this method Calculation.
This method.
This argument is taking two integer variables, right?
So this is nothing but a arguments.
Or you can say that parameter.
So you can add as many as you want like say I want a string right.
Some data so you can add your what.
So based on this data your method can use it to perform the task okay.
It's a list of variable that will be used in the method.
Right.
So here if you see that variable and variable two is used by the method to compute something.
Parameter list can be blank too as you show in the invoice.
So here if there is no parameter I am I want to use.
It can be empty also.
Okay, then there is something called throw exception.
It generally tells Does your method is going to throw any exception or not?
Right.
So this will I will cover later because this itself it's there is a lot of things to cover in it.
So that's why I kept in orange.
So there is a exception handler video in which I will be covering this.
Okay.
So just assume that there is something kind of throw exception.
You can also.
Right.
So let's say.
Just a quick overview like a highlight so that you have this thing in your back of your mind when let's
say this method get invoice can throw certain exception, I can say that it can throw exception.
Now whichever method is going to invoke this, they should handle it.
Because this when they call invoice it can throw certain exception.
So they should be able to handle it.
So how to handle that I will tell you in a separate video.
But for this we can tell what exception this method can throw.
We can tell this if it can throw.
Arithmetic expression exception.
Let's say divide by zero.
We can tell arithmetic exception.
So there are lot of exceptions kind of happen right.
But don't worry about this I will cover in detail in exception handler video.
Right.
So I think now you should be clear with what is method how to declare a method access.
Access specifier should be clear return type parameters body and all this thing.
Now let's go to the very very important type of method.
Type of method.
So see there are so many types of method.
First one is system defined method.
So system.
So now if you have seen the jdk, jvm jre video, Yo, can you tell me in the comment section that which
part either JDK or JRE or JVM out of this three which part provide the libraries to us?
Okay, so please comment me in the comment section.
So what is system defined method?
So methods which are already defined and ready to use in Java that is known as system design method.
So here let's say in this in this one.
Let's say I want to do a square root of.
So let's say I have integer uh let's say some variable I have is 25.
I want to find its square root.
So there are already a libraries present.
So there is something called math in Java dot long dot square root.
And then you can give variable Okay.
So now here, if you see that this function is already there I haven't wrote it.
This is already present inside a library Java Lang library.
So it's ready to use.
You can use it right.
So these are known as system defined method.
And you have to tell me that this system design method is provided.
By whom.
I have already told in the JVM jre jdk class.
Then there is something called user defined method methods which programmer create based upon the program
necessity.
So like I created this method.
So this method I am creating because I required it.
So this is user defined method.
So that's why this comes under a user defined methods.
Right.
It's just a differentiation.
Then there is something called overloaded method.
What does overloaded method more than one method with same name is created in same class.
So I'll tell you.
So now let's take this class.
So currently we have one method get invoice.
I think you already know this.
I have told this to overloaded and override it in polymorphism.
Polymorphism in the.
Oops.
Fundamental overloaded is your static binding.
And overridden is your dynamic binding.
And it's part of polymorphism.
Okay.
So I think you already know that.
So in the overloaded method what is this.
You have one method.
You can overload it.
Like you can write a same get invoice same method name but different argument.
So now here if you say that get invoice get invoice exactly same name but argument is different.
So here it is nothing.
It is taking nothing.
Zero parameters.
It is taking one.
I can write another void invoice.
Let's say it takes 2NANP.
That is also valid uh int int b.
So here I am taking two parameters.
Here it is taking one.
Here it is empty.
So here if you see that I am overloading and doing some other work.
So here it is doing something.
Here I am doing some other stuff.
Here I am doing something else.
Right.
So you know that overloaded methods are differentiated based upon the arguments, right.
Same name, different argument.
Let's say if it is return type is void and its return type is int.
That's okay because we during overloaded it do not consider Considered return type it.
Do not consider return type.
So this is invalid.
So let's say you are saying hey int get invoice this.
Hey now you can say that hey even though name is same but my return type is different.
Then why it is showing that it is error because overloaded method only get differentiated based on arguments.
Name should be same, argument should be different but return type is not even considered.
Okay, so that's why it is showing an error.
So it should be something else.
Or it can be anything.
It should be something else into the arguments string let's say z.
Now it's okay.
Whether now it is an int or void it doesn't matter because return type do not even consider okay overridden
method.
Subclass has the same method as the parent class.
Same everything.
Same, but in the subclass.
So let's say person.
This is one class person.
It has one method profession.
Okay, now I am creating a child class.
Doctor extends person right?
Now doctor is a.
So here you have a person parent class.
And I created a child class through extends keyword.
So now doctor is a child of parent class person.
So overridden method is if I use the same method exactly same in the child class right.
So here even whether so this is in Java.
You can give this a notation.
Let's say even if I don't give the annotation nutrition.
This is overrided professional is overrided this method.
So here if you check its parent same method return type is also same.
Access specifier is also same argument is also same name is also same.
So see everything is same, no difference even in the return type.
But you can do something else here.
Right.
So this is known as overridden method means subclass has the same method as the parent class right?
So now I think these two I have already covered in polymorphism.
Right.
So how this polymorphism works right.
So now let's see how to invoke.
So till now here let's now see how to invoke these two things.
Let's take one example of how to invoke the overloaded method.
So it's very very simple.
So let's say get invoice.
And this let.
Now let's say I am going to invoke it from let's say order.
I have created an object of invoice.
Now get invoice.
So now see you see so many flavors.
One is taking no argument, one is taking string, one is taking integer.
One is taking two integers.
So now let's say I want to invoke string one get invoice.
So now here say hello I'm passing certain string.
Now I want to call two integer one get invoice and I will pass two integers four and eight.
So this one will call the string one.
This one will call the two integer ones right.
So when you going to call the overloaded method, you can tell what arguments you will pass.
It will call the respective method.
And in the overridden one, let me tell you how it will get invoked.
So now let's say in the main method.
Let's say I have created a person object.
But so you know that person is a.
Parent class.
It can hold the object of a child class.
We have already discussed it right in the previous video variable.
So it can hold the object of child class.
So now when I'm calling object dot profession which one it will call, which one it will invoke.
So now it will do dynamic binding.
Right.
I told you it's a overridden is also known as dynamic binding.
So now at the runtime at runtime it will know hey which profession method to call whether I have to
call doctor one or person one.
So now it will say that okay, this object even though it's a parent, but the instances of doctor.
So it will first go and check inside a doctor that hey professional method is present or not, right.
So it will go inside a doctor and first it will print this one.
Go inside this one.
If let's say doctor doesn't have this method, what it will do is first it will go inside doctor and
check.
Hey profession method is there.
If it is not then it will check this one parent one and call this one.
Okay so this is how you can call a overridden method right?
Based upon the runtime.
Either it can call the method into the doctor or into the person.
Right.
Got it.
So there is something.
Now let's move forward to something called static method.
Very important, very confusing and very frequently asked in the interview.

--- Java Methods - Part2 | Static, Final, Abstract Method Type and Varargs in Java ---

There is something.
Now let's move forward to something called static method.
Very important, very confusing and very frequently asked in the interview.
What is static method?
When to declare a method.
Static right.
So these methods are associated.
So you already know the static.
What is the purpose of static in Java?
You already know that I have told it to I have told you in the variable.
So when variable is declared as static means, variable is associated with the class.
Similarly.
Similarly, here when you are associating method with static means, you are associating it with the
class now.
So now let's say you have one class A.
And you have method right?
Method one.
And you have one method Two.
But second method I am creating let's say.
Static.
So this method, method two is static.
Now I am creating two objects.
So a let's say object one equals to new A a object two equals to new a.
So I'm creating two objects.
So now you already know that this two object which I have created object one and object two, it will
have this method one only.
Method one only.
But this static method is associated with the class, right.
So this method two which is static.
It is common for all the objects.
So that's why it is say that it is associated with class No matter how many objects you will create,
it is common, right?
It is common for all the objects.
It is not present inside each objects, right?
So that's why.
So whenever you call a method static, these methods are associated with class.
And they can be called just with class name.
So now see they are not.
This method is not associated with any object.
So you don't need object one dot method.
So let's say if you want to access this method method one.
So you have to tell hey you want to access a method one of which object right.
So you will tell like this object one dot method one.
So it will go inside object one and then its method object two dot method one.
So it will this method one belongs to this object two.
So it will call this one this object this method.
But if you want to call the static method.
It is not associated with any object.
So how you will call it with the class name.
So what was the class name?
Let's say a.
So you will call with a dot method two like this.
So that's why it is known as this static method is associated with class not with object.
So you don't need object to call this method.
You only need class name because they are not associated with any object.
Okay.
So here let's see here.
Let's say the same.
Ah here the person or let's say calculation.
Okay.
So here if you see that I have created the get uh this get price of a pan, get price of a pan.
Uh, here, I'm just making it simple.
Uh, for now, let's say I'm removing it.
Get price of a pan, and it will return cap price plus pen body price.
So simple method right?
But what difference is I have made this static.
Now if at main I have to invoke it how I can invoke it.
Since it is static, it doesn't.
I don't have to create any object.
I can call it with a class name.
So class name dot here.
So it's simple.
That is, with class name itself I can invoke the static method.
Now certain things have to be considered.
It's not yet finished.
Static.
Static is very important.
Very confusing.
Static method cannot access non static instance variable and method.
Now let's see.
What does it mean.
So now let's say this.
In this method I have one certain instance variable.
Let's say uh calculation is like my stock price.
let's say ₹20.
But I also have certain static data like int.
Uh, what is the.
I am just saying anything random.
I am saying that car price something I am just taking randomly, right?
But what you have to see is that these are instance variable one I have taken non-static another I have
taken a static.
Right?
So what?
What static method is a static method cannot access non non-static instance means.
Now let's see.
Can I access car price.
Let's say car price.
Can I access it.
Car price.
Yes I can access it.
And let's say I'm changing the price to 50.
No problem.
Because this is also static.
Can I access stock price.
Stock price.
Can I access it?
No, see, I cannot access it.
Why?
Because this is not static variable.
So now the questions should come.
Hey, why we cannot access this instance variable which is non static.
Static one.
I can access it.
But why not this one.
So see.
Answer is very simple for this because you know that this methods are associated with class not with
object.
So any non-static.
So see this stock price would be associated with object.
So this will have a stock price.
This will have also stock price.
So these are associated with object.
So in in a method which is which is associated with a class and common for all the objects.
How do you know which stock price whether object one.
Stock price.
Object two.
Stock price.
Which one.
so you can't access it, right?
Because the stock price is associated with each object.
But static one is associated with class only one, no matter how many objects you create.
If it is static car price, it would be only one not associated with each object.
It is with only class.
Right.
Similarly for the method.
So let's say here you have one more method public and get uh, let's say same thing called print.
So see if you see that this is non static method.
So now you already know that.
See it is non static means every object will have print.
Every object will have print.
And if you want to access the print how you will access the print.
Let's say I want to access object two.
Object two to dot print, right?
So that's why in a static method, you cannot access this method also because you have to know, hey,
which object, which object print I have to invoke.
Right.
So but static doesn't know about this.
Any object and all its related to class.
But if it is static it has no problem.
See it should resolve because only one copy will be present no matter how many objects are there.
So it knows that which copies to call.
But here, now it doesn't know which copy to call.
Right.
So you have to tell here the object calculation let's say object one two.
So here let's say now you have to tell now this object call this one Right.
So you have to tell the static method, right.
If you are calling a non static method hey which object I have to call because it might be present for
object one.
Object two.
So you can't just directly call like this.
Right.
You can't just directly call.
It doesn't know which object it has to be.
Okay.
So you understood this one.
Static method cannot be overridden.
Now we have already seen what overridden is.
Now we know that.
Hey, you.
Can you ask why can it cannot be overridden.
So now let's say in the person we have a profession.
Now can I say static?
Let's say I have created a static now in the doctor Can I override it in a doctor?
Can I override it?
This one.
So it will show error.
Why?
It will say that static method cannot be overrided.
Why?
See what I told you during overridden is it is dynamic binding based upon the object, what object your
object holds, what instance your objects hold, whether child or whether parent.
It invokes the method on runtime based upon the object type, right?
But static is not runtime.
Static is compile time.
Very simple thing.
Now let's say I'm hiding the override.
What has happened now?
Now you say that.
Hey, I don't see any error even though it's a static and I am printing.
Hi, I am person class inside a person in the doctor I have maked a child class of person so person
is my parent.
Hey, I have a exact similar right?
So I am in doctor class.
I have a exact similar method overridden.
But you are saying that the static method cannot be overridden.
How it is possible.
Now see, whenever you write a same exact method right with the purpose that say hey, I am doing overridden
right for a static, it's actually does not do overridden, it actually hides it.
Let's say I want to access a doctor this thing how I can access.
Doctor dot profession similarly for person person dot profession.
So I told you that it will call.
It's static.
It's called it's a static person.
But is there any dynamic binding which used to happen in overridden?
Can you create any objects like okay how you we used to happen that at are overridden.
We dynamically bind a whether to call this method or call this method.
Can you do it now?
Because the static method can be called via class name itself.
So it's associated with the class itself.
This method is associated with this.
This method is associated with this class.
So where is the dynamic binding that we used to do right.
So that's why I say that it is very very at a compile time itself this methods are linked to their class.
So there is nothing like an object involved and all I think you got clear with this.
Right.
So it can be accessed through only class.
So generally it's nothing overridden happen here.
It just hide it.
Okay, so that's why they said that static methods are not overridden.
Cannot be overridden.
When to declare a method static.
So this is very important and very uh, this thing method which do not modify the state of the object
can be declared static utility method which do not use any instance variable and compute only compute
computation only happen through arguments.
So now understand with this.
Let's say I am creating this method and.
Let's say I'm creating this method uh int some into comma int b I t total equals to A plus B return
total.
Very simple method.
Now can it be defined as a static?
How do you know?
So to know that which method to define a static is just see.
Is it changing.
Is it required any instance variable.
So here you see that okay.
Does it require any instance variable.
No.
So it need only arguments what its parameter only a plus b.
So it is not changing anything.
It's only computing.
It's not changing the state of any object.
It is just computing.
Right.
So this can be very much taken as a static.
Okay.
Because any object can use it.
They can pass it the data it just compute it compute the value and return it.
It is not changing anything.
Now let's take this example.
It's also let's say some are some two.
Another method I just want to differentiate something.
Let's say uh intake comma and b right.
But let's say it is doing a car price equals to car price plus something.
Let's say uh end total equals to A plus B and then it's adding into the car price and then returning
car price something.
So now here if you see that what is happening.
What's the difference.
So now this method sum two.
First of all it depends upon the instance variable.
It's not only depend upon the arguments Apart from argument, it also depend upon the instance variable.
So that is one red flag that this method cannot be static.
Another red flag is.
It is also changing.
The state of this car was 40, now it changed to whatever the addition comes.
Let's say it is two and one three.
So it is become 43.
So this is changed.
And now you know that here with this.
So let's say car price was 40 and different.
Object one.
Object two.
So now if you call if you make this method static, if you make this method static what wrong.
It can happen.
So now with this method static.
So you have created some two as a static method.
Now.
So this are both static.
Now all objects are accessing this.
Now this object has called some to write.
So this has called some two.
Let's say thread.
One thread is called some two and pass two comma one.
So what it will do some two.
It will add two plus one three.
And it will add it to the car price 43.
So it change it now when object two access it.
Now let's say even it passed five comma two or let's say another thread which is working now it will
work.
What would be the value of car price?
It will get 43.
So here if you see that even though it is expected something other output it is might be getting because
some other thread is influencing.
Now your computation.
So now that's why.
Because that's what it blunder this static because all objects are sharing the same method and same
variables.
Static one.
So that's why don't create a method static if it is using any instance variable.
Any simple as it is.
If it is using instance variable, don't create that method static.
Create a method static if it only works on arguments.
Simple.
Okay, so I think you got this one right.
One of the example is factory design pattern.
So you can check the video in the factory design pattern, like how this can happen in the factory design
pattern.
You can create this static because it's totally depend upon the arguments no instance variable.
Okay.
Now let's create a final method.
So final method is you when you don't want to change the implementation.
Now you have seen as a overridden in overridden what you have seen that hey, subclasses can change
the implementation of the parent.
So here let's say it has profession.
Hi I am a personal grass in doctor.
It can override it.
Now let's say it is overriding it right?
It can change something.
It can change something like I am different, I am doing something different.
So see and it is doing something different.
Parent one is doing person class.
It is doing I am a doctor class and doing something else.
So here if you see that it has changed the implementation of your method of the parent.
So whenever you don't want child class to change the method, you can make it final know when you make
it final, you see error.
You can't override it.
Right.
So that's why.
So final method is you don't want to change the method definition, whatever you have defined into the
parent and you don't want to change it means you cannot override it also.
Okay.
So that's why it says that final method cannot override because it cannot be changed.
So if you cannot change something you have to keep the same.
If you have to keep the same, then what is the need of doing overriding.
Tell me if you want to keep exactly the same then why you want to override it.
It's already present into the parent.
Use it.
So that's why override is not possible.
It's of adding no usage, right?
If you can't change the method then no need to override it also.
So that's why we say that final method cannot be overridden.
Then you have abstract method.
Right.
What is abstract method?
So abstract method is defined only in abstract class.
Only method declaration is done.
Implementation is done in child classes.
So see in the in the classes I will take, I will make one video on classes and cover all type of classes
that are your private class, inner class, nested class, abstract class.
So in that also I will declare, but I will give you a flavor of it.
So there is a keyword called abstract.
So abstract method should always be inside a abstract class.
So now let's say I am creating one abstract method.
So I can use this.
And let's say I am creating a print.
So there should be only declaration no definition.
I should not define it.
Something something something abstract method can only have a declaration, its implementation.
Or you can say the definition is the responsibility of the child class.
Who is who is the child class of this one?
So doctor is a child class of his parent.
So this is his responsibility now to implement that right.
So here it is showing the error.
So if I use it say implement method print right.
So this was an abstract.
So its child class duty to implement it.
Now do provide the implementation or definition something something something some implementation.
So this is known as abstract method.
So abstract method.
You have to just put abstract but it doesn't have any definition.
Only like this, right?
Only declaration and it should be used inside a class.
Abstract class, huh?
So it can be only defined in abstract class.
Only method declaration is done in the abstract class.
It is implementation is done in the child class.
Okay, and regarding abstract class, I will cover into the class videos where I will show you the more
about the classes.
And the last topic into the uh.
This method is variable argument.
Very important guys.
So now see with an example.
So let's say I want to do a some into.
So let's say consider this.
Let's say I don't know how many variables I need to add.
Like it can be three.
It can be four.
So let's say is it a good way to do it.
Let's say adding so many overloading.
It can be one, it can be two, it can be four, it can be five.
So I will create how many copies?
Let's say it can only be one also.
Right?
It can be let's say five also.
So five variables also can come.
I have to do some.
Let's say or more can come.
So here if you see that when you don't know about like hey how many variables can come.
Two is also possible.
Three is also possible.
Four is also possible.
Nothing is also possible.
It can come right.
So there means the parameter is variable means it's not fixed.
So then what you can do is instead of creating so many overload overloaded methods, you can create
like this with three dots let's say variable Right.
So this three dot says that it could be as a treated as a list.
Now I can.
So it's an integer type right.
So let's say integer.
I am accessing now let's say my um.
Let's say this is variable.
I am creating where I'm iterating over the list.
And now let's say I'm just adding it.
And output.
Output equals to output plus whatever the variable is coming 234.
Now in the in this loop it will running.
It will come 234.
It will just add it and simply return the ultimate value output.
Right.
And uh how to invoke it.
Uh, how to invoke it.
Let's see in the main method.
So it is in calculation, right?
I have to create a calculation object.
Calculation object dot.
Now see this is the one.
Now I want to create pass only three.
That will also work I want to pass three comma eight comma.
Nine.
Ten.
That will also work.
Right.
So let's see only one method.
It has only one method.
Some.
Let's say I want to pass.
More.
That is also work.
So here if you see that it is considered as a list.
So it is variable.
One more four and many all will go into this three dots.
And you can treat it as a list.
And here if you see that it can take this is known as variable argument dot.
Three dots.
So it has certain things which you have to.
These are the rules of it.
Only one variable argument can be present in the method.
What does it mean.
You can't have like this.
And another variable to something.
Only one you can have.
You can't have two.
Second is it should be the last argument in the list.
So this is wrong in a this is wrong.
So variable argument should be the last.
So it should be the last argument.
So let's say intake comma.
So this should be the last argument right.
So reason I think it's a self is that it can be many.
It can be many.
So now let's say if I am passing this thing right.
So now here if you see this the first one is treated as this one a and the rest one.
All taken.
We don't know, like how much it can be any taken as a variable argument if you keep it first.
If you keep it first, then how you will assign to the what value you would need to assign, where you
will stop, where you will stop right it because it can be any where you will stop if you define it
at the first.
So that's why it says that it define it at the last, so that initial once you assign it and later on,
whatever you have it, keep it into the variable okay.
Okay guys.
So I think go through it once and if you have any doubt please ping me.
But this method is everything I have covered.
Only two things are pending which I will cover in the respective.
I'm already tracking it.
Okay guys, see you soon.
Bye.

--- Java Constructor in Depth | Different Types of Constructor with Examples ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do constructors.
So it is a very very important uh from the interview perspective.
So see these are the most frequently asked interview questions which I have written down.
So we will cover all okay so let's start.
So what is constructor.
So constructor is used to create an instance.
Plus.
It is also used to initialize the instance variable.
Okay.
So it is used to create an instance and also used to initialize the instance variable.
It is similar to a method except name.
The constructor name is same as class name return type.
The constructor doesn't have any return type, and third is constructor cannot be static, final, abstract,
or any synchronized.
So Being this set as a software engineer.
The few questions which comes to your mind is first, here you are saying it is used to create an instance,
but till now you were saying that whenever we create, when whenever the new this new keyword is found,
an object has been created.
So is new is helping us to create a object or constructor.
First thing, second thing why?
Why the constructor name should be same as class name.
Why constructor does not have any return type.
Why constructor cannot be static, final, abstract and all.
So all this question has to become.
So let's first find the answer of all these things.
Then we will move into the type of constructors.
Okay.
So first thing first how to create.
Let's say this is my class employee.
Okay.
And let's say I have a method.
Uh let's say I have an instance variable employee ID.
Okay.
And there are certain method also.
So how you can create an object of it.
We already know that we have seen like we have say that employee.
This is the object I wanted.
And how to create an object using the new keyword new employee.
So now we say that hey is new is helping us to create an instance.
No new just tells the during runtime is tells the Java that hey, we have to call the constructor.
We have to call the constructor, right?
Why?
Because method can also have the same name as class name, right?
So let's say I can also create one method let's say employee.
Let's say it's return type is integer.
So this is also applicable.
This is not like wrong.
You can create a method with the same as class name, right?
But what this new tells to the Java at runtime is hey, we need to call constructor, not method.
So this can be like method name also.
Right.
But here we want to call a constructor.
So that is the role of new.
It tells the Java in runtime that we have to call the constructor not method, because method can also
have the same name.
Okay.
Second thing why constructor name is same as class name.
So one constructor name is same as class name is.
So this is my constructor.
So this is constructor.
So constructor name is always same as class name because it is easy to identify.
Generally see method can also have a same name as class name.
But but thing is this is not promoted.
So we try to keep that.
Hey, only the constructor can have the same name as employee name, so it is easy to identify.
So by looking at a class you can easily tell this is a constructor.
Okay, but.
What is the use of return type.
Why constructor doesn't have return type.
Now to see that here let's say this is the class employee.
This is my constructor.
Employee.
This is my constructor.
Int.
Employee.
This.
So this is method.
And this is constructor.
So here if you see that for constructor there is no return type.
Implicitly Java add the return type as the class because we need a object of class itself.
So implicitly it will add a class as a return type.
So this is let's say, but I can create a method also like this.
So this is also allowed right?
I can create a method like this employee.
And my method name is same as class name employee.
And I have this method functionality.
So now how do you differentiate a differentiate which one is constructor and which one is not right
method name is both exactly the same, right?
But here it says that constructor doesn't have any return type internally.
Implicitly it will return this object.
But here in there we doesn't define anything.
So we can easily know this is constructor for method.
You know that if if it doesn't return anything you have to provide void.
If it is, you have to define explicitly that what is the return type we wanted?
So this is your method.
This is your constructor.
And this two rules helps to distinguish the constructor from a method.
Now constructor cannot be static.
Constructor cannot be final and abstract.
So this is very very important interview question actually.
So let's see this frequently asked question here.
Uh why constructor doesn't have return type.
You got it.
Can you answer please uh please answer me in the comment section what you understand why constructor
doesn't have a return type.
So this I think you is clear and name why constructor name is same as class name.
I think this is also clear.
It is easy to identify in a class of let's say 100 method.
You can easily tell which one is the constructor right now.
Why is uh why constructor cannot be final?
Now let's see this use case.
First of all, tell me, what is the use of final in a method I.
In the previous method you might have seen this.
What is the use of final?
Final helps.
So method which is declared final cannot be overridden.
Why?
Because final method cannot be changed.
If you cannot change it then there is no point of doing an overridden.
So now let's take this example class employee.
Now let's say you have the method or not a method.
Let's say constructor employee.
Right now let's say you have a child class uh manager.
Extent.
So it's a child class extends employee.
So now your employee is your parent class manager is your child class.
Now the question is hey, why constructor cannot be final.
Let's first understand this.
Can this constructor.
So what do you.
So when you create a child class what we say that all its method, all its method and variable get inherited.
Means internally all its method and variables also present in child class.
But does constructor also get inherited constructor also get inherited?
Let's say if yes, generally constructor do not.
But for understanding purpose, let's say yes.
Let's say constructor is also inherited.
So when it's inherited means this method constructor is also present into the child class.
Right.
Because all methods and variables of parent class is inherited internally.
But let's say if constructor is also allowed to inherit, it means now what will happen.
This is we are saying constructor.
But this is a class name is manager and constructor.
Rule one is constructor.
Name is same as class name.
So now here constructor name is employee, but it is present into the child class.
So now what should be the name of a child class is manager.
So constructor should be name with manager.
So means it will treat this as a method.
It will treat it as a method.
And if it is a method it expects a return type.
Also, you have to now define an some return type or int void something.
Right?
Because here in this class child class, the constructor should start with the class name, which is
manager.
But if it is inherited from parent class, so then this will not be treated as a constructor because
it is inside a class manager and this is not same as class name.
So now it will be treated as a method and you have to define a return type also.
Now we know that constructor cannot be inherited.
If it cannot be inherited then how you will override it.
Can you override this now?
No, you cannot override it if you cannot override it, what is the use of declaring it final?
Final uses.
That method cannot be override.
Got it.
Similarly, why constructor cannot be abstracted?
I told you in the previous abstract method right?
To create an abstract method, you need an abstract class.
Let's say employee and in abstract method you define only declaration, not definition.
Let's say some print.
So what generally this abstract method will do is.
So whenever I create a class subclass child class which extends this abstract class.
Now this responsibility of providing the implementation to abstract is on child class, so it has to
provide the implementation.
It has to provide the implementation.
But I told you already constructor is not inherited.
If you cannot inherit it, how you will provide a implementation because it is not inherited to child
class.
Child class doesn't have access to constructor.
If child class doesn't have access to constructor, how you will provide an implementation, right?
So that's why constructor cannot be abstracted.
Okay.
Why constructor cannot be static.
Let's understand this.
So now you know that how to call a constructor.
So you have.
Of class employee.
Same example.
And you have an instance variable employee ID.
Okay.
Now let's say you have a constructor employee.
I told you that constructor is also used to initialize this instance variable.
So it is I can use this also that I can initialize this either through this or maybe I can have a parameterized
constructor where I can have certain parameter, let's say in value.
And whatever the employee id I will assign with the value, whatever the value, it is coming.
So it is also used to initialize it.
But now let's say first why constructor cannot be defined as static.
Let's say if constructor is defined as static, let's say if constructor is defined as static in the
previous video method.
I told you static method can only access static variables, right?
It can only access static variables.
So definitely then constructor won't be able to initialize the instance variable.
It can static method can only access static variables and static methods.
It cannot access instance variable because it is not aware of which object it belongs to, right?
In the previous method, if you have followed the previous video, you would be able to understand this
one, right?
So if you define a method, if you define a constructor static, then you can't initialize the instance
variable.
You can't initialize it.
Right.
So this is the first problem.
Second thing it is related to chaining.
I will define you in the chaining part.
This super.
It is related to the super.
I'll tell you what is.
If you define a static, you won't be able to use super, right?
So I will tell you when it comes to the chaining.
So let's keep it on our back that once we cover the chaining part we will say that why static will not
work.
So this is also clear to you right?
Why constructor.
Can we define constructor in an interface right here.
If you see that this is my interface, let's say employee, you know that an interface we can only provide
we can only provide method.
Declaration.
No definition.
Only the child class.
Only the implementation.
Let's say manager class manager which is implements which implements this employee.
Provide the implementation of this print.
You already know that you can't create an object of this.
Can you?
Create an object of this employee object equals to new employee?
Can you do that?
No.
For interface you can't create an object.
Only for this you can create an object.
Right?
When you create an object of this only then definitely you need a constructor for this because constructor
is used to create an instance.
Constructor is used to create an object for interface.
We cannot create object if you cannot create object.
What is the use of constructor?
Because constructor primarily uses to create an object.
Okay, so in the interface we only have to create the object of the child classes.
So constructor is required for those but not for interface because interface you cannot create an object
and we will learn more about interfaces and maybe in the next sessions when we reach to the class interfaces
and all.
Okay.
But as you already know, you can't create an object of interfaces.
So constructor is not even allowed for this one.
Okay.
So I think these all questions are clear.
What is constructor.
And this all things after learning the definition of constructor these all things should have come to
your mind.
And this should be clear right now.
Let's see what are the type of constructor.
First is default.
When you do not define anything, the default constructor is added.
Let's say here.
Let's take this class calculation.
Does have I have added anything?
Nothing.
Right.
Let me delete this.
Dot class file.
Let me compile it Java.
C calculation dot Java.
So now this dot class will come here means it's a byte code.
Now let it's a Decompiled code.
So now here if you see even though I haven't defined any constructor here internally Java provide one
default constructor to us, right.
So this is default constructor, right.
And let's say I have certain variable here.
Uh, let's say my um here certain object, let's say string.
Uh certain name.
Right.
So what this default constructor will do.
Default constructor will ultimately set the default values.
So what would be the default value of string.
It would be null right.
So default constructor.
Also set the default values for all my instance variables.
And when the default value default constructor comes.
Default constructor comes when you do not define any constructor, then Java automatically provide one
constructor to you.
Okay, so here if you see that even in the calculation I am doing new calculation.
So new will say hey, I have to call a constructor, not the method because method can method can also
have a calculation name same, but it will say that we have to call a constructor.
But in the calculation I haven't defined any constructor, but still it calls it because I told you
by default it provides one constructor.
So default constructor you got it right.
There is something called no argument constructor.
So see default is something.
Even though I haven't provided anything Java provides, no argument is same.
But now I am manually defining it.
Right now I am manually defining it.
Let's say earlier it was a string name, right?
Now am I can be like name equals to this something empty or null, anything.
So this is not only known as no argument.
So it is not taking any argument.
Looks very similar to default.
But the thing is here I am defining the constructor right?
Even though it is very similar to this thing default.
But now here I am defining it right.
Got the difference.
So this is called a no argument, but here I am.
You are manually defining it.
Parameterized constructor.
Parameterized constructor means this.
Let's say string employee name.
So you are assigning the instance variable with the parameter with the employee name.
Now here if you see that when you create it you have to define let's say shreyansh.
Okay.
So now what value would be assigned to this constructor.
This instance variable.
It will come as a range here.
So it new will say that it calls the constructor.
Which constructor.
This constructor.
Call this constructor with the this parameter.
So it will go and call this one and it will assign the name instead of null.
It will assign the name as Shreyansh.
Now one thing you have noticed if I remove this, it is showing error.
Now you can ask me hey, you told that generally Java adds default constructor automatically.
So this is the syntax of a default constructor, right?
Why it is not invoking.
So whenever you define manually any constructor.
Whenever you define manually any constructor, default constructor is not added.
Now let's compile this and see again Java C calculation dot Java.
So this dot class will get updated here.
If you see default constructor is not there because we ourself have defined one constructor.
So default constructor is only added when you do not define constructor on your own.
If you have defined the constructor, your own default constructor is not added, right.
So you have to keep that in mind.
So you got it parameterized now constructor overload.
So I think you know method overload right.
You already know method overload.
So what is method overload.
Can you tell me a method overload is the same method name but with different parameters.
Similarly applies here.
You can create multiple constructor with different parameter name.
String employee name.
Let's say here I have another let's say employee id so I can have another, let's say end employee ID.
So here, if you see that this is one constructor with employee name.
And here let's say it is setting employee ID to zero.
And here it is setting to employee name and employee ID.
Okay so this is this.
So this dot right refers to this one instance variable.
So let's say here it is string is name I can also have the same in the parameter also.
Right.
So how you differentiate like what which one is this one.
So this dot this this object this object whatever the object is calling.
Right.
So whatever the objects you are constructing.
So this object field instance variable name.
So this is the one and this is the this parameter okay.
But now if you see this constructor overloading because same method name M same constructor name but
different parameters, right?
And in this you can have like so here it will call this one.
And if you pass integer which one it will call this one.
Okay.
Constructor.
Overloaded.
Understood.
There is nothing like constructor Overrided.
As I told you, constructor cannot be Overrided.
So constructor cannot be Overrided.
So there is no constructor overridden by constructor cannot be Overrided because it cannot be inherited,
right?
Why it cannot be inherited?
Because uh, if if it can then the naming problem will cause an occur in child class.
The constructor name has to be same, right?
Then there is something called private constructor.
So private constructor is you can create a constructor private.
Now what happen is when you create a constructor, private means nobody will be allowed.
Nobody will be allowed to call your constructor or to create an object outside of this class.
So you know that singleton, right?
So where you want to create only one object, right.
If you don't create a constructor private means outside from this class.
Also anybody can create an object.
So by creating it private means only this class has access to create a constructor to call a constructor.
So let's say I can create one public method get instance and inside because public methods can only
be accessed inside this class.
So public constructor is only access inside this class.
So this can only call the constructor.
So it will say that new means call an instructor.
Which one?
This one, this constructor.
It will call and it will create an object and return.
Now anybody want an object they can't call constructor directly.
They have to call the this method.
They have to call this method.
And how let's say but if you have defined a constructor private the outside class, can it create an
object?
No.
If it can't create an object, how it will call.
So you have to make this method static so that it can be called from a class name.
So it would be like calculation dot get instance.
Because I don't have object I need object.
So I have to make this method static so that it can be called from a directly class name and and don't
need object for it.
So I call get instantly give me one object.
It will create an object and return Right.
It will create an object and return.
Now I can save an object here and I can use it.
So now here, if you see that a singleton pattern, we use the private where we want to control the
object where we want to return only one object.
So this method we generally in singleton pattern, we update this so that only one object is returned.
But I think you got why private constructor is required so that outside nobody should be able to create
an object.
This class should have the full control over it.
Now let's see the important part.
Constructor chaining.
So constructor chaining are of two types this and super.
It can be achieved through two parts this and super.
So let's say this is one constructor.
Let's say this is another constructor or calculator calculation in uh let's say employee ID okay.
Uh, let's say there is another, uh, this one, uh, let's say this is string name, comma and employee
ID, and it is calling, let's say, uh, name this dot name this dot name this dollar equals to this
parameter, this dot employee ID equals to this employee ID.
Whatever I am getting okay.
Now what here.
So let's say if this constructor is called what is chaining.
So chaining is like using this.
So this can only be used inside a particular class particular object.
So now here if somebody is calling this I can call like this right pass employee ID.
Uh let's say I want to pass as employee ID as ten.
So what it will call it will call this.
So now this will be invoked.
Now if this is invoked, it will can call another constructor like this in name.
Pass it like null or let's say I'm passing as SJ and uh, employee ID whatever I am getting.
So now what?
It will invoke this constructor where it has two parameter string and int.
So it will call this constructor and it ultimately set the data.
So now here if you see this is chaining this calls this constructor this call this constructor.
So this is chaining happening right.
So and how in a within a one class if there are so many constructor they can we can make a chain using
this.
So this calls this and pass certain type of data because uh it has only one data.
So it passed this.
Now this has only one data.
And it uh, call another constructor with certain whatever data it has and certain some hardcoded like
now ultimately this have all everything and it set the instance variable.
So this is called chaining.
Using this.
And this can only be used inside one class.
Now there is another kind of chaining called super.
So super is happen between parent and child.
So now let me create one parent class let's say person.
So this is my parent class and it has only one constructor simple.
This person class which I have created.
It has only one no argument constructor.
And now I am creating a child class manager which is a child of person, right?
And here it is a its constructor.
Nothing right?
No argument constructor.
Simple.
Now see this here.
Let me put system dot out dot println Inside manager.
Inside manager.
Constructor.
No.
ARG.
No argument.
Constructor.
Now let's see.
Let's create an object of which one.
Manager.
OBJ equals to new manager.
What it will do.
What does it mean if we so new will tell it?
We have to create an.
We have to call the constructor this one.
So it has to call this one.
Now just have this in mind.
That manager is a child of person.
So the first constructor it will invoke is person one.
So it goes from bottom to up.
So first it will go and initialize the parent constructor.
And then it will go and initialize the this one.
So let me run this and show you what happened.
I am running it now.
Run!
Here.
This is a person class, so I am creating a manager.
Object manager.
But here before this printing what it print, it goes to a parent and initialize it.
This is a person class.
No argument.
This is a person class.
No argument.
And then it created the manager object.
This is manager constructor.
No argument.
So what happened here?
So here whenever you create a child constructor internally it first invokes the parent constructor.
How there is a hidden super here.
So this is hidden if you don't provide it automatically.
The first line added by Java Runtime is this super.
Either you add it.
So this will also output the same thing here.
If I run this, this will also output the same thing right here.
If you see it will output the same thing.
This is a person.
So ultimately when it goes to the manager.
So first it prints super.
So super means go the parent one here.
If you see the parent it will call the parent constructor first and then it will call the child constructor.
So even though you don't write it Java internally add the super at the first line itself.
So means first parent constructor has to be constructed, parent object has to be constructed.
Then only you will create a child object.
Okay.
So this is not known as chaining.
So it is also known as chaining.
So now let's take another uh little bit uh this thing.
So in a person let's say you have employee ID and I have like it's a say employee ID and let's initialize
this.
This dot employee ID equals to employee ID.
And in manager child class you have one more variable age.
Right.
And so now when I'm trying to create an object I have to give both whatever the constructors are required,
whatever the variables are required to initialize all the variables.
So let's say I want to create employee id and int age.
So.
If if the parent constructor doesn't need if if your parent constructor is like this.
If your parent constructor is like this simple no argument, nothing, right?
Then you don't have to specify this.
Then you don't have to specify this because Java will automatically add this and it will call.
But here if you are If it is not a no argument means there are some.
Parameterize this is a parameterized constructor, then this super will not work.
Then super will not work because you because it will not.
It will call which one.
It will call this one.
Right?
But here, if you see that I haven't provided this in the class.
Right.
This one will call this one.
But here I haven't provided this one, I have only this one parameterized one.
So now you have to pass the data, whatever it is required for the parent constructor to create.
So I want to pass employee ID.
Hey call this one and complete your and age.
I will set mine this dot age equals to age.
So this one I took a responsibility of initializing it and this one the my parent constructor will take
a responsibility of initializing that.
Got it.
Super Cup.
Super.
Constructor.
Right.
No argument.
You don't want to initialize anything, then?
No need to write super.
It will automatically add it.
But if parameterize a super super parameter, then only that constructor will be called.
Okay.
Or maybe changing parent and child call.
Right.
So it is a chaining through super.
I hope you got it guys.
I hope you got this.
All the types of constructor and this all frequently asked questions.
Okay.
So just try it out.
And if any any doubt feel free to ping me on comment section or LinkedIn anywhere.
Okay, guys, see you soon.
Bye.

--- Java Memory Management and Garbage Collection in Depth ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So today we are going to very very important topic in Java Java memory management.
Right.
And before we start so I want to say that please excuse my voice I have a little bit cold.
So I'm sorry for that.
So here if you see that till now we have covered a basics like how to create a class, how to create
a primitive data types, how to create an object right.
How to call a method.
So this thing should comes to your mind right here.
How do we manage.
How do we the memories are allocated to them right.
So let's understand this today because this is very very important interview questions.
And plus when you start working in the company you will see that how much importance is given to this
okay.
So now let's start this.
So there are two types of memory.
When I'm saying memory it's I'm talking about Ram right.
So there are two types of memory which Java creates stack and heap.
And when we are talking about memory management who manages this memory JVM?
JVM is the one which manages this memory, right?
And it create it divides the memory into two parts stack and heap.
And it stores different type of data inside it.
So let's see first what kind of data stored in a stack and what kind of data stored in heap.
So let's say this this is your.
Stack.
Now here, if you see that I am creating multiple copies of it, I'll tell you why.
And let's say this is your heap.
So generally heap has more memory than stack.
Okay.
And it only have one copy.
Now what kind of data is stored inside a stack.
So first of all, it stored temporary variables, right?
So let's say you have created a method inside a block and you created a variable int a equals to ten.
So it's life is very temporary with that within this open bracket and closing bracket.
After that it got destroyed.
So this is known as temporary variables right.
So all temporary variables are stored inside this stack.
Okay.
Then separate memory block for method.
So whenever a method is being created.
So let's say this is inside of one particular method public get something.
So for each method there is a block of memory frame you can say that stores.
And inside that method, whatever the variables, whatever the reference it's created, it will store
inside this memory frame.
Okay.
So I'll tell you an example with this one.
But first let's go through this.
What kind of data is stored and we will see the example.
It will clarify you more okay.
But let's see this store primitive data type.
So this is also nothing but a primitive data type.
So primitive data type is stored within a stack store reference of the heap object.
Whenever you create an object like new with the new keyword, whenever you create an object it stored
inside a heap its memory.
But it's reference reference of object is stored in the stack.
So these type of reference I will tell you later, but first understand what kind of data we stored.
So but there are different type of reference.
Strong reference.
Weak reference soft reference phantom references.
Right.
So I will tell you later.
But first understand what kind of data we stored.
Each thread has its own stack memory.
So now you know that.
That's why I've created multiple copies of stack because each thread.
So this is let's say thread one has its own stack memory.
This is thread two has its own stack memory.
Thread three has own stack memory.
Thread four has its own.
But if you see that all the threads share a common heap memory, okay, variables within a scope is
only visible, and as soon as variables goes out of scope, it gets deleted from the stack in the LIFO
order.
So what I mean to say is that everything is here in the stack is within scope.
Everything has a scope.
I will tell you how.
So just wait for it.
For an example.
You will get to know how this leaf order is performed and what is mean by the scope.
When the stack memory goes full you will get this error.
Stack overflow error okay, now let's understand this with the example, right?
This is very simple class.
If you see I have created a class memory management and I have one public static void main.
So it's one method okay.
So this method has one primitive data type one object one string literal right.
One object I created to invoke this another method.
And I'm doing an invoking of this method.
And then you can say that this has invoked this.
And inside this I have another reference to an object, another string literal and another string object.
This is not a string literal.
So this is a string object using new keyword.
So it's a very very simple class.
We have covered methods variables.
Right.
So you should be easily understanding this what I have written.
But now let's understand this how memory is stored for this one.
So now let's create a stack.
So let's say this is our stack.
And let's say this is our.
Heap memory.
Heap memory is always larger than stack.
And so here let's see this.
First of all main method is invoked whenever the main method is invoked.
I told you for each method a block of memory is stored.
So let's say I have stored this block memory.
This is for main.
So this is one scope for the main.
This frame.
You can call this as one frame of memory for which method main and all the variables which are created
inside this main method it would be stored in its block Okay.
So this is its scope.
So now let's say main method is called.
We have created its memory.
Now I have created a primitive variable.
Primitive variable 110.
So I have stored it here.
Primitive variable ten.
So as you know that primitive variable doesn't hold any reference.
It store the value itself.
So it is stored into the this memory of this scope.
The second is I am creating a new object new person.
So one memory is created here let's say.
This is your object person object.
And this person object has a reference who is storing the reference person object, so it has one person
or obj.
So this holds a reference to this memory.
Okay now I am creating one string literal.
So as you already know from the previous variable class that string literals stores the data into the
string pool and where does string pool?
Stores?
String pool is saved inside the heap only.
So there is something called string pool.
So whenever you are creating a literal string literal so it would be stored here 24 okay.
And what is the reference string literal.
So it will create a reference variable string literal.
And it is storing a reference to this 24.
Okay.
Now the third line is new memory management.
So see, I am creating one more object now.
So let's create one more object here.
I have created one more object.
What is the object memory management.
Memory management object and its references inside mem obj in the same main one right.
So it would be inside this only mem obj.
So currently if you see that all are within our scope.
So scope is still going on.
Scope is not yet finished okay.
So within a scope you can access all the variables right within a scope.
So this is a scope.
Within a scope you have access to all the variables.
So now object storing a reference to memory or memory management object.
Now I am invoking a method memory management test and passing this reference.
So now you see that I'm creating an another method.
So for each method it will create a new reference.
So I am creating an another frame.
So this frame is for.
Which method.
Memory management test method.
So this scope is for memory management test method.
This scope is for main.
And now this is for this one.
So this is it's this method frame memory frame.
So first of all it has this person obj.
It has this person obj.
And what reference it has.
So we pass the reference of this one new person.
So new person is here.
So this has reference to this one only.
Okay.
Now see I have created uh, another reference which is pointing to which object, whatever the person
object is pointing to.
So I have created another reference person obj two.
Person obj two.
And it is pointing to the same memory.
Which person obj was pointing person obj was pointing to this.
So it was also pointing to this one.
Same.
Okay, now I have created one more string literal 24.
So whenever I, as you know from the previous class, whenever you created a string literal first it
will check into the string pool.
So is this literal present?
24 is present.
If yes, it will not create new.
It will use the same.
So it will create string literal two, reference string literal two, and it point to the same from
the string pool itself 24.
Then it's create a string literal three and it's a not a literal.
It's a new object because I'm using a new keyword.
So it create a new object which is string object and has the value 24, but it is inside a new this
one string literal three.
And it's storing this reference here.
Now if you see that I have got a closing bracket, whenever you get a closing bracket means scope is
finished whenever the scope is finished, you have to delete all the variables or references created
within that scope.
So now this scope is finished for the memory management test.
When the memory management scope is finished, it will delete this scope.
It will delete this scope.
Right.
So now if you see that it's going in the left manner last in first out.
So this one was the added last after main.
But it is the first one to get deleted when this scope is get deleted.
So all this will also get removed.
So now this is removed.
So this reference no more exists.
After that this get removed.
So this reference will also get removed.
Okay.
Now after that this will get removed inside this.
This will get removed, right?
So this reference will also get removed.
After that this will get also removed.
So its reference will also be removed.
So now you see that it has done remove this memory management test method frame and all the variables
we have created.
We have removed in a LIFO manner.
We have cleaned up.
Okay, now it moved to here.
Now the control come back to here.
This method is completed now.
Main method closing bracket has been reached now main method closing bracket has been reached means
main method scope is also finished.
So we are removing this also when we are removing this.
So what we are doing is we have to remove this memo BJ when memo BJ is removed we have to delete this
reference.
So this reference is removed.
Then we remove string literal and this reference will be deleted.
Okay.
Then person obj reference is deleted.
Its reference will also be deleted.
Then this value will be deleted.
So now if you see that the method execution is completed right.
Stack is empty and everything is done.
But now you have noticed one thing here Shreyansh.
What?
We have deleted the references which was pointing.
But what about this objects which now created in the heap?
How we will delete those because their reference when their references were deleted.
So whatever was pointing that we have deleted that reference.
But now these objects are left in the heap.
Who will clean this up?
That's where the garbage collector comes into the picture.
Garbage collector is used to delete the unreferenced object from the heap.
So now for this object.
Is there any reference from the stack?
No, there is no reference.
So garbage collector will remove this.
Now it will check.
Hey, is there any reference?
Is anybody referencing.
No, nobody is referencing.
This will also be freed up.
Hey, for person object, is there anybody referencing?
No, nobody is referencing.
This will also be freed up.
Okay.
Similarly for the string pool, if it is not used after all, it would be removed, right?
So this all will be done by garbage collector.
Garbage collector runs periodically, right?
JVM controls JVM controls when to run the garbage collector.
So see there is a command called system dot GC.
So in your application code if you write this command?
You are telling that.
Hey, run!
The garbage collector and garbage collector will try to scan the heap.
Hey, what?
All object?
There is no reference.
If it find any object for which there is no reference, it will delete it.
But JVM says that there is no guarantee that even if you type this, I will run the GC.
So running the garbage collector is totally depend upon JVM.
So JVM has full control over garbage collector whether I should run it or when to run it.
Okay, so even though you write it, there is no guarantee that garbage collector will run.
And that's why it is called as automatic memory management.
Right?
So you don't have to worry about freeing up the memory.
JVM takes care of it automatically.
It periodically it keeps on checking the heap memory.
And if it seems that okay, heap memory is filling up fast, so it will run the garbage collector more
periodically, more faster.
If it seems that.
Okay, We have.
I have sufficient space.
No need to worry.
JVM may run, uh, garbage collector.
Very less.
Okay, so you understand that?
So now you have understood this stack memory, how it stores the block, how it stores the variable,
how it store, the primitive data type, how it is stored, the references.
Now I'll tell you about this strong reference.
Weak reference.
Okay.
And also you have already know about how each thread its own stack memory variables within a scope is
only visible, and as soon as the variable goes out of scope, it gets deleted in leaf order.
I think you get it by the scope, right?
So this variable is not visible inside this scope, right?
So each variable is visible within its own scope.
And when stack memory goes full it's throw stack overflow error okay.
So now let's understand this.
What are the different type of references?
So in a simple way, I have told you this way that for a stack this is a heap.
This is a stack.
This is heave heap stores the object.
This stores the reference of object.
Reference of object.
So now let's say this example I have created here.
Person.
Person object equals to new person.
Okay.
So I have created an object of person.
And p object is the reference to it.
So this is p obj is a reference to this.
This is known as strong reference right.
So this is known as strong reference like how we are using it as of today mostly.
This is known as strong reference.
So when garbage collector invokes now garbage collector runs.
Now it says that hey, is there anyone who is referencing to this object?
It will see that yes, there is a strong reference.
So it will not delete this.
It will survive.
Okay.
Second is weak reference.
Weak reference.
How you create a weak reference.
There is a class called weak reference.
You want to create a weak reference of person.
Now you are saying that okay this is weak p obj equals to new weak reference.
Of person and you are creating a new object.
New person object.
Okay, now see this?
Whenever you create an object like this, so you are creating a new person object.
Let's say you are creating another new person object okay.
So this is another person object.
But you are making a weak reference, right?
You are creating it a weak reference.
So now here you are creating a one more week.
P obj.
Weak p obj.
So there is a reference but it's a weak.
What does it weak mean.
Weak means that as soon as the garbage collector runs, as soon as garbage collector gets invoked,
it will freed up this space, right?
So it's not like a strong.
A strong says that, hey, garbage collector, don't delete my object because I have a strong reference.
Somebody is using it, but weak reference is that garbage collector is not run.
I am able to access it, but let's say garbage collector runs.
It is not mandating the garbage collector that you cannot free it up.
Hey, if you run, freed it up, right?
And if you try to access what object, what value, it will get null.
Okay, so that's the difference between strong and weak.
Strong tells the garbage collector that do not delete this.
I have a reference, but weak says that I have a reference.
I can access the value, but if you run, you can feed it up right?
As soon as you run, you can feel free.
You can make it free.
And if I try to access it after that, I might get null value.
So that's weak.
And there is something called self-reference.
Self-reference is a type of weak reference, right?
What it tells is, hey garbage collector, you are allowed to free it up, even though I have a soft
reference.
But only do it when it is very very, very urgent.
Very, very urgent means that there is no more space and you have to create a space.
Then go ahead.
You can remove it, no problem.
Okay, so only difference between a weak and soft is like weak is like as soon as garbage collector
will run, it will feed this.
It will remove this object.
Soft reference tells that that.
Yes.
Garbage collector.
You are allowed to free this, but do it if it is very, very urgent and you need the space very urgent.
Okay, so that's the only difference.
Okay, so generally we hardly use this in the company.
We are mostly using a strong reference part.
Okay, but it's good to know this.
We have this type of references also weak reference, soft reference a strong reference.
If there is a strong reference present to an object, this object will never get deleted.
Till a strong reference is present.
A weak reference is present.
As soon as garbage collector will run, it will remove this.
No matter weak reference is present or not and if we try to access it, it will get null value.
If it is a soft reference, GC might decide that okay, I have sufficient space, let's keep it alive.
So it's GC totally.
It is allowed to remove it if it want, but GC will say that okay, I have sufficient space, let it
live for some more time, right?
So soft is just this.
But totally GC is allowed to free it up, but only do if there is a very shortage of space.
Okay, understood this one.
References.
Different type of references.
Now before we jump into the heap.
Very, very important.
I just want to tell you that how the reference can be changed.
So this is a heap.
This is a stack.
Let's say I created this one, uh person obj equals to new person.
So what will happen in this case a person object will be created obj reference will be there in the
stack.
It will pointing to this.
So first if I do this obj equals to null means what I am doing is I am making this removing this reference
and storing obj null value.
So now garbage collector can invoke and remove this.
Okay.
Another way is let's say I.
So this is one object.
And currently it is pointing to this one.
Okay.
So currently it is pointing to this one.
Now I am creating another object person obj two equals to new person.
Okay.
So what I'm doing is I'm creating another object.
So this is a person object one.
This is person object two I am creating a new object and obj two is the one.
So this obj one let's say this obj two.
This is storing reference to this one.
If I do this obj one or this is let's say one obj one obj two.
So means what I'm doing is obj one is now storing the reference of this one one obj one obj two.
So this one.
So now here, if you see that garbage collector, when garbage collector invokes it will freed up this
because there is no reference to this one.
So there are different ways like garbage collector can get invoked.
Right?
So there is no reference to this one.
It get invokes and you can manage the references through which.
And if heap is getting full also, then garbage collector get also invoked.
Okay, so whenever object is not present, no reference is present.
It is allowed to freed up the memory by the garbage collector.
Okay, so now we know how the what kind of data stack store, what kind of data heap stores.
Now get little bit more into the heap memory, right.
Now let's go into the heap memory.
I hope you are finding this topic very, very interesting guys.
So heap memory is divided into two parts, which is young generation.
And old generation.
And there is one more part which is generally known as non heap.
Meta space.
Okay.
In the previous version of Java I think before Java seven it is called pram gen pram gem.
But now it is no more used.
It is used a meta space.
It is called as meta space.
Okay, so this is not a part of heap memory.
So heap is generally so.
This is your heap memory which is divided into two part young generation and old generation.
So young generation is further divided into three parts.
Eden.
S0 s1.
This is known as.
Survivors.
Survivor.
Space.
And this is Eden.
Okay.
Now let's understand this.
Very, very simple.
Right?
But very, very interesting.
Now let's see.
How when you create an object where it stores first.
So this is let's say you are.
Young generation.
This is your old generation.
This is your.
Eden.
This is your S0.
Survivor one.
Survivor, sir.
S0 s1.
Okay.
Now I am creating an object one.
I am creating a new object one.
So first of all, whenever you created a new object, it goes inside Edirne.
Okay.
This is your object one I am writing oh one to save a space.
So it is object one.
Let's say I created another object.
Object two.
Object three.
Object four.
Object five.
So I have created five object.
So currently everything was empty.
So I created five object object two object three object four object five.
So five objects are created inside a Edirne.
Now let's say after a periodic time, after some time garbage collector got invoked.
So first time garbage collector invokes.
Now garbage collector do two things.
So there is a something called an algorithm called mark and sweep algorithm Them Mark and sweep algorithm.
So what it will do is as a part of first step mark, it will mark all the objects, which is no more
reference and it is allowed to delete.
So let's say object two and object five is something.
There is no reference.
There is no reference like this.
And it is allowed to be deleted.
There is no reference let's say object two.
So it mark it like okay, object two and object five are allowed to be deleted.
There is no reference.
Then there is something called sweep algo.
Now what this sweep algo will do.
Is it do two things.
It will first remove this it remove this from the memory.
And what it will do is it will sweep this other the surviving objects into one of this survivor stack.
Or you can say that memory place.
So now here.
This
010304
will come into S0 okay.
And it will be removed from here.
And this two will get deleted and it will age will be added.
So age is its one.
Its age is one.
Age is one.
So means their age is increasing.
Right?
So this process is called minor GC minor GC minor garbage collector because it's very fast.
It happens very periodically.
Now let's say second time.
Now let's say uh, another objects created before any garbage collector runs, another object created
let's say obj six obj seven.
So where does obj six and obj seven will be created, let's say here obj six obj seven okay.
Because every time a new object is created, it is created inside a hidden only.
Now let's say garbage collector got invoked after this.
So first it will do Mark.
So now it will do a mark into all Eden s0 s1 like whatever the objects.
Hey which one?
There is no reference.
So let's say obj seven.
There is no reference.
So it marking it obj four there is no reference.
It is marking it.
Now they are eligible for deleting.
Now sweep will happen.
So what sweep will do is it will delete this remove from the memory.
And what it will do is that in the other.
So alternatively first it put into S0 nine.
Now it will put it to S1.
So obj six.
So object six is put here.
Now its age is one.
Object one is put here.
Its age was one, now its got age.
Increase to two.
OB three.
Its age was one.
Now its age is two again plus one.
And this will get remove obj.
Object six is already there with age one.
So this is Eden.
Get freed up.
This got removed and this got freed up.
So if you see that at a point Eden would be free after the garbage collector and one of the S0 and S1
would be free.
Okay.
And alternatively we put the data into S0 as one and we increase their age.
Now let's say I have set my threshold.
Threshold value has like age three.
Whenever age three is reached I have to promote them.
I will tell you what does it mean.
So now let's see.
I have created one more object, let's say object eight.
So in which memory object will be created newly here.
Object eight.
Okay I have created let's say object nine.
Now third time.
Garbage collector runs now garbage collector runs.
What it will do.
It will first.
Mark the objects which there is no reference.
So now let's say it's marking that okay I have to delete this one.
I have to delete this one.
Okay.
Now the sweep will happen.
And what sweep will do is it will delete this.
It will delete this.
Freed up the space.
And what it will do is it will put object nine from Eden to this age one.
And from S2 it will bring object six.
Age Is one here, then it will to object one age was two, now age will become three.
Now here if you see that one thing.
So let's first clean up this object nine is there.
Object six has been moved to S0 this freed up and object one has been moved to S0 this one.
Now here, if you see that I have defined a threshold age of three, and after three I have to do promotion.
So what does it.
So now here, if you see that object one has reached its age, it has survived this much time.
So whenever it survive a particular threshold it has to do a promotion.
And what promotion means is this object has will be now moved to old generation.
This object one will be now moved to old generation.
Okay.
So now in the old generation.
Only difference is that here it is called minor GC.
Here it is called major GC.
Whenever GC run.
Why?
Because it first of all, whenever the GC runs here it don't run to periodically like maybe let's say
here it is run every one time in ten second.
Let's say I'm just saying it right.
But let's say in old generation it might be running one time only in half an hour.
I'm just saying that theoretically that here the GC runs very less periodically, very, very less as
compared to the young.
And also whatever the objects are present into old generation, there is kind of a big objects, right?
They are used to frequently.
Right.
So it takes a lot of time.
So these are like faster as your young generation.
Right.
So you can say that objects created deleted created deleted.
So it's very fast.
But old generation generally happen is like there are lot of references because they are alive from
so long, they're alive from so long.
So there could be so many references pointing to them and all right.
And they might also have a further references to them.
So generally this process is, uh, garbage collection is little bit time taking than young generation,
but it's uh, it has it do the same thing.
It first do Mark if there is no reference and then delete it.
But here the garbage collection process is called major GC.
Here it was called minor GC.
You understood that young how heap memory is divided into young generation and old generation and gen
generation.
We have Eden and Survivor space.
Now there is something called meta space right.
So this is a outside of the heap.
What data it is.
Store your class variables.
I think you have seen the Uh, variable.
Uh, topic.
Right.
You have no.
What is class variables?
Every, uh, object which you create through static.
That is class variable.
So it store class variables, it store class metadata.
Class metadata means store information about the class from which objects can be created.
Right.
It store constants.
Right.
Uh, you define right.
Static final.
So these are constant.
So all this kind of data, metadata information constant class variables are stored into the meta space.
Right.
So as soon as like Java JVM needs need to load certain class, it will load it here as soon as JVM doesn't
need any class.
So it will remove it from here, right?
But this is important.
Now we have understood about the heap, right?
Young Eden survivor.
Old.
Old generation is also known as tenured.
Permanent generation.
So that is, uh.
Pam.
Jim.
It is used to be earlier one.
Now we call this meta space.
I have already told you.
Right?
So this was in the old, old Java versions.
I think before, uh, before Java seven.
I think you can check it once.
I think it is before Java seven.
It is a prime gem.
And the major difference between prem gem and meta space.
Meta space, I think from, uh, from Java seven or Java eight, we are using beta space, right?
But here the major difference between them is like, uh, prem gem was a part of heap.
Was a part of.
So you have young, you have old, then you have Prem gem.
So it's a part of a heap memory and it is not expandable.
So as soon as it will get filled up, you will get out of memory error.
But here Metaspace is out of this heap is now only young and old.
And Metaspace is separate.
That's why it is called as non heap.
And it is expanded.
Expandable as you require.
Okay, so that's the major difference.
But the kind of data they stored is kind of same.
Now let's understand about the garbage collector algorithm which is we are kind of uh our last topic
here today.
Garbage collector.
So I think you already know by here what is garbage collector?
How it get invoked.
Like, what is the purpose of using the garbage collector?
And one of the algorithm I have already told you the mark and sweep algorithm.
So as a part of first phase mark, it will identify what all objects need to be deleted and the sweep
it will just remove those objects from the memory.
Right.
So there is something called mark and sweep with compact compact memory.
So what is the difference here is simple.
Nothing much.
So here if you see that uh, let's say this space memory space heap.
So here you have one object which is identified that it can be deleted.
There are objects here, let's say.
And during the mark I have identified what all objects need to be deleted.
Let's say I have identified this.
Identify this.
And as part of sweep, I deleted it.
So I have deleted this.
Now here, if you see that how our memory is generally would be like this.
So one data is here, one data is here, one data is here.
But there are certain memory segments which are freed up here.
There are certain memory segments which are freed up here.
So with compaction, what happen is it will bring the objects into sequential.
Write it compacted so that we have a memory fragment in a sequential form later, so that any new object,
it can be added later.
Otherwise it would be very difficult to put an object in this fragments.
Right?
So what it will do, is it compact the remaining objects which survive, and so that we have a freed
free of space at the last.
And it would be used to put an object there.
Okay.
This is known as mark and sweep with compaction.
Now there are different versions of GC.
First is serial GC, second is parallel GC, third is.
Concurrent mark and sweep.
This is C.m.s.
And fourth is G1 garbage collector.
This is the default.
Default version of garbage collector in Java eight.
Okay, now I'll tell you this is very, very important to understand this serial GC.
Now you know that garbage collector is used to remove up the memory from the heap.
From young and old.
Both, right?
So serial GC is that only one thread?
Only one thread is used and this thread will work.
Let's say garbage collector initiated.
And this will work and freed up the space.
Only one thread.
One thread let's say.
So this is called minor GC and it is called major GC.
So when the minor GC will get invoked, only one thread would be working.
When major GC will invoke only one thread would be working only one GC thread.
So what is the disadvantages?
First of all, whenever you are only one thread is working, it definitely work would be slow.
So it would be little bit slow.
Second thing is GC is very very expensive.
Why?
GC is very expensive.
Because whenever the GC work starts, whenever the GC work start, all application threads will get
paused.
So that's why we call that the world stop when the garbage collector runs.
So let's say your application is running.
As soon as the garbage collector runs, your application will become paused.
Now garbage collector will complete its work and after that it will resume.
So if GC is slow, then definitely your application would become slow because they are pausing too many
times.
So that's why GC is very expensive task, because when the GC work starts, all application thread will
pause.
So this is one of the disadvantage of GC that only one thread doing the work of cleanup.
So in the Java eight the parallel GC is used in this depending upon the core.
Let's say if you have two core CPU four core.
So this many threads got initiated for the garbage collector and they work parallelly, right?
So when there are more threads, definitely it would be little bit fast and there would be less pause
time.
But still there is a pause time, right?
But only thing is multiple threads are working to freed up the space.
So you will get a little bit less pause time because the far the work of cleanup would be done a little
bit faster.
But still, this is you can say that in the latest.
Uh j17.
And all there has been work has been done to further improve this through concurrent mark and sweep.
Concurrent mark and sweep is says that okay, while your application threads are working, this is your
application thread.
Concurrently GC threads are also working.
So it's a concurrent GC thread.
So your application thread is working and in parallel GC thread is also working.
No one is stopping.
So application threads are not stopping because of GC threads right.
But it's not 100% guarantee, right?
JVM doesn't guarantee that your application thread will not stop.
Only it says that I will try my best that your application threads will not stop.
I will try to do concurrent mark and sweep concurrent cleanup.
I will try to do.
But I don't guarantee 100%.
And also there is no memory compaction happens.
So whatever the memory got freed up.
So let's say there is some segment freed up.
There is certain memory segment.
So no compaction happens in this.
So then there is a further improvement is like G1.
So G1 you can say that the better version of this where it says that okay try to give you 100% that
okay, your application thread will not stop.
And also it brings a compaction that all the memory is bring together and all the freedom.
Memory is added at last so that they can be used.
So you got it.
Currently Java eight is using parallel GC and there is a further in the latest version of Java.
There is a further chance that the post time can be reduced to a very minimal so that your throughput
Increase and latency decrease.
When your throughput increase means earlier your application can process 1000 requests per minute.
Let's say now, because there is less pause time, you can process, let's say, 1500 requests per minute.
So your throughput will increase.
Definitely.
When what will happen is when your throughput increases means you have, uh, threads are not pausing.
So pause time has been removed.
So definitely your latency will go down.
You will see the advantage.
Okay.
So that's pretty much I have for you in memory management and garbage collector.
Very very important topic.
Please go through one more time.
You will understand it better right?
And yeah I think that's it.
If any doubt, please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
I will try to resolve your doubt as soon as possible.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Java Classes - Part1 | Nested, Concrete, Abstract, Object, Super & Sub Classes ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the type of classes.
So by now you have seen we have done variables methods and right.
So now you have seen that classes we have used a lot.
But do you know that there are how many different type of classes are there.
So here if you see concrete class, abstract class, super subclass I think you already know that object
class.
Nested class.
Important.
Generic class.
Very important.
Pojos.
Enums.
Final class.
Singleton class.
Immutable class.
Wrapper class.
So these are the type of classes right.
And in today's video I will cover till here okay.
And from generic from generic to this one I will cover in the second part.
Otherwise the video would be very very long okay.
So this would be the first part of the video.
And this would be the second part of the video okay.
So let's start with the concrete class.
So which classes are known as concrete classes.
So any class which you can create an instance using new keyword.
Okay.
So those are those classes concrete class are those classes that we can create an instance using new
keyword.
Those are known as concrete class.
All the methods in this class have implementation.
It is like you know that in the interface in the interface class you can just put a definition like
let's say display.
That's all.
It doesn't have implementation.
So what does it say is that in the in the concrete class all the methods should have implementation
okay.
It can be your child class from an interface or extends base class.
What does it mean.
So see this is a normal class person right.
So it has a method has proper implementation.
And you can create an object of it person or obj equals to new person right.
Similarly if you have an interface and you created a implementation of this interface rectangle, now
you are implementing this method.
You are implementing this method, right?
So you cannot create an object of this, but you can create an object of this.
So this is a concrete class okay.
Okay a class access modifier can be public or private practice private.
So now you have seen that uh in the variables in the method we can define public private protected.
And by default it's a package private which is known as default.
But what about the class.
What are the access modifiers we can give.
So we can either give public or we can either give package private which is like nothing.
If you don't give anything, it would be like your default in the package only all other classes would
be able to access it okay in the public in different packages.
Also it would be accessible.
So these are the only two access modifiers which are allowed public or you don't give anything, then
it would be considered as default or packaged private.
Okay, you got it.
The concrete class.
So now whenever say somebody write a concrete class you should know that.
What does it mean now?
What is abstract class?
Abstract class is like you can achieve abstraction.
Like you know that.
What is abstraction?
Abstraction means hiding the implementation from someone or from the client and only exposing the features
which is client required.
So let's say I always give an example of car a car, right.
You give a feature like apply brake, but how internally the brake got applied we don't know.
So we have a implementation somewhere which implements this okay.
So the total brake Break functionality is present here, but client doesn't have to know.
So client.
So abstraction means hiding the implementation and only exposing the features which client has to know.
Okay, it shows only important features to user and hides its internal implementation.
So there are two ways to achieve abstraction.
You know that one is interface.
Okay.
Through interface you can let's say that apply break.
Right.
And the client will only call this method.
But how the break actually got applied.
He don't know because implementation might be in some other class let's say Audi uh which implements
this uh, let's say uh car interface and then it will implement this apply break method and do the complete
implementation.
So interface is one way.
Another is what abstract Keyword.
So in the class, right.
Let's say you have a class car.
Now this abstract keyword, what it allows is that you can only define method but you should not implement
it.
It is so you can create abstract method.
So if you remember from our method video, right, uh, the where we have discussed the different type
of method, you have already aware of what is abstract method.
So you can create an abstract method here.
Let's say apply brake apply brake.
Now whichever class is going to extend because it's a class right.
We have to extend not implement whichever class is going to extend it.
It has to provide the implementation.
So these are the two ways interface.
And through abstract keyword we can achieve abstraction.
So 0 to 100%.
8%.
So see, 100% is an interface or 100% abstraction.
It's like all definition only implementation would be the present in the one which will implement it,
and through abstract classes you can achieve like 0 to 100 even you can have all the methods as abstract
like apply, break or increase the speed.
And you can also have some methods which have implementation, let's say void decrease speed.
And you have implemented the method here also.
So 0 to 100% you can achieve in both through interface interfaces by default 100% abstraction and through
abstract class keyword.
You can either get 100% or maybe, uh, some method abstraction and some without abstraction.
Okay, see this one with the abstract.
So I have created an abstract class.
Okay.
And if you see that here I have created one abstract method press break.
But I haven't given the any implementation.
Another I have created press clutch again I made it as an abstract means no implementation is present
here.
Then I created one method get number of wheels I put four.
Okay, so if you see that I have provided an implementation.
So abstract class can have both abstract methods and the methods which have implementation.
Okay.
Now any other class which extends this car.
So now this car is extend by luxury car.
Now if you have also make it abstract.
So this is possible.
So see this is abstract.
You have make another class which is also an abstract.
So what it can do is either it can provides provide the implementation of it, or either it can add
more abstraction.
It can add more abstraction to it.
So now in the luxury car, what it has done is it added one more abstraction press dual brake system,
I don't know, is it, uh, like dual brake system is there or not?
I just added so but added one functionality that press dual brake system.
It is one more abstract okay.
But it also provide the functionality of press brake.
So implementation is provided.
So the child of this car which is also abstract, it can either provide an implementation of the parent
abstract method or it can just choose that I will add more abstraction.
Okay, now I have created one more child called Audi of Luxury car.
Now if you see that this is not an abstract, okay, it's a concrete class.
It's a concrete class.
Now what?
I told you that concrete class should have all the method implementation.
So this already has to implement all its parent abstract method.
So it has to implement dual brake system proper implementation.
Uh brake is already provided the implementation and clutch is left.
So clutch also has to provide.
So you got it.
So through abstract method the you can create a class as an abstract where you can provide an method
with implementation and also just a definition.
And then you can create a child of this class which can either be an abstract or either can be a concrete.
But remember one thing that we cannot initiate an instance of the abstract class.
You cannot create an object of this class like new car is not allowed here because this luxury car is
abstract.
You can't do new luxury car.
You cannot do this right.
Only for concrete class, you can create new Audi.
Only for concrete classes we can create an object.
For abstract classes.
We can't create an object because they don't have an implementation yet of certain methods.
Okay, but yes, you can store the reference into the parent class.
So you created a new Audi, but you can store a reference into luxury car here.
Luxury car.
And you can say let's reference this reference.
You can store it, but you can't create an object of this luxury one and the car one.
But reference can be stored into the parent class.
Clear.
Are you clear with the abstract class right.
So this is very simple Uh, abstract class, which we have seen.
Now, let me tell you about super and subclass.
So in this one you will see one very, very important, uh, interview questions.
Also, you know that how to create a super class because you till now we have seen lot of inheritance.
Right.
Class A has a child of class B.
What about only A?
It doesn't have any parent.
What will it have?
So generally the parent class is known as superclass.
And child class is known as subclass.
Okay.
But what about the class which doesn't extend anything.
Let's say for example, I have defined class person and it doesn't extend or implement anything.
Right here it has class A.
And this is class B extends Tense a.
So this is a subclass of this is a superclass.
But now here in this case the person class is not extending anything.
Right.
But in Java, if there is, if there is a class which doesn't extend or which doesn't have any superclass
in Java, by default there is a superclass called object class.
So Java has this internal class which is kind of a parent of all.
So it's like this object.
And then you have different classes let's say person or here in this case let's say a.
And then person you can have more child classes in here you can have B.
So every class which doesn't have a parent by default, object class is the one which is the parent
of all.
Okay, so here a class that is derived from another class is called subclass.
So B is derived from A.
It is called subclass and from the class which subclass is derived is called superclass.
So this is known as the superclass okay.
In Java, in the absence of any other explicit superclass A, does it has any superclass?
No.
In person.
Does it have any superclass?
No.
Every class is implicitly a superclass subclass of object class.
So in Java automatically these are a child of object class.
This is very very important.
Interview question.
Remember object is the parent of all the classes okay.
And this object have certain very very very common methods like two string method, right?
Uh, the clone method.
Wait.
Notify.
All like these are very, very common method.
Which object have it?
Right.
So it has some common method like clone two, string equals, notify wait etc..
So generally you will see this notify wait into the threading when we will do thread right.
And when thread runs so you can make it wait.
So that is used.
And if you want to start the thread which is waiting you can call notify.
We'll see into the thread part.
Concurrency part.
Okay.
Now see this how this object is used generally.
So now let's say I am creating a one class object test.
Public class object test.
Normal class okay.
And I have created one method public static void main string arcs.
Right.
Normal.
Our main method.
Now what happen is here.
See this?
I have created a new person object.
Okay.
And this class?
I haven't created it anywhere.
It is by default present in Java.
Now, if you see that I told you that child object can be stored in parent class reference, right?
I told you here, right?
If you're creating a new audio object, it can be stored in parent class reference object like parent
class reference.
So parent is luxury car.
So you can store it into luxury car.
This object reference will be stored here.
So here if you see that I have created a new person object.
Person doesn't have anything.
Person doesn't have any superclass.
But still I am able to hold its reference here in the object class because it's a parent by default.
Similarly, I create a Audi class, Hours, right?
Even the odd class.
Also I can create into the object because it's a parent of all.
And now now let's see I have this objects object one and object two.
I have this object object one and object two.
Now I want to know that hey this object one is of which class like.
So I can do that get class.
So now it will print.
It's a class person object.
Now object two is of which class we don't know right.
There can be many classes because it's a parent of all.
If I want to know it's this object is an instance of which class I can do.
Object two dot get class.
Give me the class name.
It will say that hey, it's a class already.
So this is the one very important which I want to tell that somewhere you want to store the object,
right?
And you don't know which one is the parent, right?
And you want to hold the object.
You can always hold the object into this class or object class because it's a parent of all.
And then later you can use it to know that which class it belongs to and perform certain operation.
Okay, you got superclass and subclass and about the object class.
Now let's go to very very important called nested class.
Okay.
So see nested class first.
So here if you see that we have nested class nested class of two types one is static.
Nested class.
Another is non-static
nested class which is also known as inner class.
So don't get confused with nested class and inner class.
So nested class is of two type static nested class, non-static nested class and non-static nested class
is also known as inner class.
Now this inner class is further divided into three parts.
One is your local.
Inner class.
One is your member.
Inner class and another is your anonymous.
Inner class.
Sometimes they call anonymous class, so.
But generally its anonymous inner class.
So here if you see that we have to understand 12345 kind of nested classes.
Okay.
Very important.
Right.
So from interview C from last eight years to be honest I have very rarely used this as a nested class.
Right.
Um, but still from interview perspective is knowledge.
It's important in interview.
They still ask a question about it, but as a real implementation.
I said that yes, I have used it, but very, very rarely.
Like it's not like we frequently use this nested class.
Just wanted to give a heads up based on my experience.
So what is nested class?
A class within another class is called nested class.
Okay, cool.
When to use.
Hey, you can ask me a question, right?
When to use nested class.
So if you know that a class, let's say A will be used by only and only one another class, you have
created a class A.
Now you know that this class will going to be used only by class B.
Why?
We have to create a new file for it.
Why can't we create an inner class of this nested class of the inside a b itself?
So this is one of the hint that when to use the nested class.
If you know that a class or file which you are creating, if it is going to be used by only one class,
then instead of creating a new file for that class, you can put it into a class B as a nested class.
Okay, so if you know that class A will be used by only another class B, then instead of creating a
new file, a dot Java for it, we can create a nested class inside B itself.
Okay.
So it helps you to group logically related classes in one file itself.
So within a one file itself you can group all the logically related classes.
So this is uh, you can say that uh, a hint when to use the nested classes.
So scope A scope is same as its outer class.
So whatever the scope, whatever the scope of this, uh, class B public or default, I told you.
Right.
It's the scope for this class would still be the same.
It cannot be more than that.
So I told you that static, non-static and all this thing.
Let's go in depth of now.
Static nested class.
So this is very very important all.
So first of all let's see how to create a nested class.
So this is my outer class.
Class.
Outer class.
Okay.
Very simple class class name.
And the access modifier I haven't given anything.
So it by default is default which is a package private right.
Within a package, all the different uh classes would be able to access this one.
Okay.
Now see I have created one instance variable.
Instance variables means it.
This variable would be associated with an object because.
And I have created one static.
This is class variable means this object is related to a class, not to an object.
I think from r variables session.
Session.
You might already know the difference between instance variable and class variable.
So I have created two variables to show a difference like instance variable and class variable.
Now here if you see that I am creating a static nested class static nested class.
So I have created another class.
But make it static.
Static nested class.
And inside the class we have method.
So I have created a method.
Now I am trying to access the variables of a outer class.
So here if you see that now you already know through a method static static method can only access static
methods and static variables okay.
So here if you see that I am able to access class variable because it's static, but I am not able to
access the instance variable because it is related to an object.
Okay.
so that's all.
What is a static nested class.
So inside an outer class you can create another class okay.
Nested class I have given the name.
And you can make it static.
And because it's a static whatever the method you will create, you can only access the static data
of the outer class.
Static data.
Static variable.
Static method only.
Now how to invoke this.
This is very important.
How to invoke the static.
Let's say I want to invoke this method.
I want to invoke this method.
How so?
See this.
Now I am invoking this method from the main.
So see.
This is a static.
So means you don't need the object.
You don't need an object of it like of the object of the parent one.
Right.
So static you know that it's associated with a class.
It's not associated with an object.
So let's say understand with this on what I'm trying to say.
Outer class.
Outer class have a static method, let's say display.
And it has another method called print.
So you can access this display.
It is associated with the outer class.
So you can access outer class dot display.
Right.
Because this is static and it is associated with the class.
You can access it with the class name.
But for print you need an object of outer class.
So you have to create an outer class uh obj equals to new outer class.
And through obj dot print you have to do you have to create an object of this class.
And then call this because it is related to object.
Similarly inner class considered as one more kind of an uh, like kind of a, let's say a part like
you have a variable, you have a method, right?
Similarly considered as a inner class.
Also nested class.
If you have created a static, it is associated with the class, not with the object.
So you can create an object of this one through a outer class itself.
So I am creating an object of this one.
Outer class.
Dot nested class.
So here if you see, because it is static it is associated directly with the outer class.
So I am directly accessing outer class dot nested class.
Similarly I showed you like display method.
If it is static how you access outer class dot display method.
Similarly this outer class dot static class nested class.
And now I am creating an object of this nested class and calling this method okay.
So this is how you initiate and create an instance of nested static nested class.
You don't need the object of parent class to invoke to create an object of this one, but just by outer
class dot nested class you can create an object.
Okay, you got it.
So try it out.
This, uh.
This one.
Now, I told you that very, very important.
Very, very important.
I told you that the class generally can be public or default.
If you don't give anything, it would be a default, which is package private.
But if I ask you in an interview, they ask you, hey, can you define a class access modifier as private
or protected?
Also can you?
So generally what your answer would be no because class access modifier can be either public or package
private.
But remember nested classes can be created as a private, public protected anything like a method,
like a variables, right?
So here now I have created one private.
So now here, if you see that I have created a static class same a static class.
But now as a private, that's what I wanted to show you that yes, nested classes can be created as
a private or protected or public or even the package private.
The default one.
Okay, so now from the variables and methods you already know, right?
If you have created any variable private, let's say int a in a class A, then you know that this private
variable and method is only visible inside this class.
No one outside this class can access it.
Similarly, treat this nested class also also as one of a member of your class like variable like method.
Now you have created it.
Private means it.
It's object cannot be created outside of this class.
Outer class?
Like how I created an object of this.
Nested class outside this are some other class, right?
Object test another method right outside this outer class.
But this private it's object would be only created inside outer class only.
No other method.
So if I have to invoke this private method, I have to expose one method here.
And I have to create nested class object here.
And then call this one.
And from outside it has to create an outer class, this one object.
Call this method.
And inside that this class it will create an object of now nested class.
And then invoke it because since it's a private, it's object cannot be created outside this class.
It cannot be accessed outside of this class itself.
Okay.
Remember this private are nested classes can be private or protected.
Also, it's not just public.
Understood this one static nested classes.
Now let's move to non-static nested classes which is also known as inner class, inner class or non-static
nested class.
It has access to all the instance variables and methods of the outer class.
So I told you that int instance variable class variable.
Now the same thing I created an inner class.
But here if you see it doesn't have static keyword.
So if there is no static keyword means consider this as inner class okay, not as a static nested class.
Now I have a method.
Now you see that I am able to access its static variables.
Also able to access this instance variable also.
Okay.
The only difference you will see is like how to invoke this?
So now see that this is not a class member like so you need an object of parent to invoke this.
So now from other class, if I'm trying to invoke it first I need an object of the parent class.
Outer class I created an object of the outer class first because let's say outer outer class object
or object itself, you will create a method, let's say display or access certain variables if it is
not a static member.
Similarly inner class.
Also, if it is not a static, you can only access through an object of the outer class.
So I have first created an object and using that object.
Now I am creating an object of the inner class.
So outer class dot inner class.
So this is the reference.
Now see.
Using the object using the object of the parent I am creating an object of now inner right and then
able to access it.
The method print.
Okay, that's the only difference.
You will see that while initializing the non-static and the static.
Okay, so for static one you don't need a parent outer class object to initiate a inner nested class
object.
But for inner class which is not a static because it is now associated with the object of the outer
class, you have to first create an outer class object, and with that object.
Now you have to create an inner class object like this.
And then you would be able to call the inner class methods.
Got it.
So this is known as inner class.
So now if you see that there are three types of inner class local member or anonymous.
So here if you see that.
So the one which I showed you.
Right.
Uh, this is also known as member in our class.
The one this the example which I showed you.
Right.
You have an outer class, and inside this you have an inner class that is also known as member inner
class.
It can be private or public protected default.
Now see local inner class.
Local inner class.
If you are creating this inner class inside a particular block of F, so you have a if statement.
And inside this you are creating an inner class.
You have a for loop and you have its block.
Now inside this you are creating an inner class.
Now you have one method let's say display.
And then inside this you are creating an inner class.
So what I mean to say is that local inner classes, like if you are creating an inner class inside a
particular block of certain method for loop.
If condition while loop anything, then it is known as local inner class.
These are those classes which are defined in any block like for loop while loop, block, if condition,
methods, etc..
Okay, it cannot be declared as private, protected or public.
Remember this it cannot be declared as private, protected or public only.
Default access modifier is used for the local inner classes.
Okay, it cannot be initiated outside of this block.
Let me tell you about this one.
So let's say I have a class outer class the same.
I have a static and non static member variable.
Now I have created a method display and inside the display and inside this block.
Now I am creating one inner class which I called as known as Local Inner class.
Okay.
And now this local inner class has its variable and the method.
Now see this method can access instance variable static data which is of outer class, plus the method
local variable, which is whatever the block it is inside.
If it is has certain variable, it can also access that.
And it can also access its own okay.
But it cannot be initiated outside of this block.
So within this block only within this block inside this it can only be initiated.
Okay.
Within this block only it can only be initiated.
That's the only thing is it is very local.
It is local to this method.
So see, I told you about the memory management, right?
Whenever you create a method, whenever you create a method it you get a one static.
You can get one block in your static memory.
You get a block of this method let's say display okay.
Now the lifespan of this is like as soon as the block ends, as soon as the block ends, this memory
gets freed up, this memory get freed up.
So that's why this class can only be invoked inside this block only.
So its life is also inside this block.
Only right after this block, it has no life.
So it can only be invoked inside this method.
Only.
Right.
And that's why you can't create it private or public or anything.
Because it's like so when this method is invoked.
when this method is invoked.
It got a memory block inside a static one and then its life is.
Does this block only?
So there is no point of putting private public because it's a private only.
You can only create an instance of this, only inside this block itself.
Public like you can't access it outside because after it's within this block.
So you know that right?
In the method you have created any variable.
So it scope is within this block, only within this block, whatever you have defined it, they can
see.
Right.
So that's why it can't be a public because it is within a a particular block.
So its scope is also within that block.
You got it right.
And let's say how you want to invoke this one.
Let's see that one.
Okay.
So you see, you have seen that how to invoke the inner class which is inside a particular class.
First create an object and then invoke it.
Now let's see how you can invoke this one.
So now if I want to invoke this inner class I have to use this one I have to call print.
How you can do that?
From the outside class I have to create an outer class object.
I have to call this method display.
And inside the display.
What it will do is it will first create an object of.
Now this and then call print.
So the object can be created inside a block only.
It's all like grouping the variables methods right inside functionality of this method inside this class.
Now not many talk about this and not many.
We have used it also.
but see in interview perspective, everything which is ignored is not important.
From the interview perspective.
Okay, now we have seen like okay, very simple.
How to create a nested class, how to create a local, how to create a member inner class.
Before jumping to anonymous, I just want to tell there is like a thing should come into your mind here.
Now we are talking about class.
So is class.
Can it can also be inherited or not?
Yes, inheritance in nested class is also possible.
See, I have never ever used it in last eight years.
But still you know that something which we ignore or leave it and that only comes in the interview,
right?
Or in the exam?
So let me give you a brief about this inheritance so that no, we have touched all the points and at
least it would be in our back of the mind.
Yes, this is possible.
So I will explain you with three examples of this inheritance, and I think it will give you a better
knowledge that if in interview you would face this, you would be able to answer it.
So I have created an outer class.
I have created an inner class, inner class one.
I have created another inner class two which extend this inner class one it extend this.
Okay.
So now if you see that this inner class one has its own method, own variable.
This inner class two has its own variable.
But class two is a child of class one.
Right?
So if you see that I am able to access the class one method, also inner class one here, and it can
access its own variables and also the outer class one.
So you can also do inheritance like this between inner classes.
Now if I want to create an object of this one, how you will create it, you know it.
It is also an inner class.
So how to create an object of inner class?
You first need to create an object of the outer class.
So I've created an object of the outer class.
Then using that outer class object you have to create an object of the inner class.
So inner class two I have created an object okay.
And now I just call the display method.
Okay.
Now let's see about this static inner class inherited by different class.
So currently I have done an inheritance in single class single outer class.
But what if a class is inner class is present here and I have a different class now.
Can it this be inheritance be done?
Yes.
Now see this.
I have an outer class and inside this I have created one static inner class.
Or I think it's a static right?
Then it's a static nested class.
It's not inner, it's static nested class okay.
And it has one method okay.
Inside nested static nested class.
Now I have created some other class.
Now I want to extend this.
So uh so let me change the name.
This is static nested class.
I have changed the name from inner to nested class because it's a static right.
It's not a inner class.
It's a nested class a static nested class.
So I have one outer class.
I have one nested class which is static.
Now in the some other class I can extend this only this class.
How.
See it's a static right?
So outer class dot nested class.
And you can in in its method I can simply access all its method accessing the display method.
Okay, so this is possible also.
But what about if it is not non-static?
If you see that now it is static is not there.
So means this is an inner class.
So now I have a outer class.
I have created an inner class and it has one method.
Now in some other class I am extending this inner class.
Now the only difference between here is I told you in the method session that about the constructor.
Whenever you have A, you have B, whenever you call you B, if you remember what I told you before
creating an object of this, it will first create an object of.
Call the constructor of this.
Create an object of this.
So.
Right.
So It create a parent object first, then child.
So now when you are inheriting, when you are inheriting the inner class, right.
And this is not a static means.
It is related to a object of this outer class.
So what you have to do is first initiate the object of the parent.
Right.
So I have I have to create a constructor here some other class.
And you know that from the previous session method itself.
Like when you call new let's say any class right.
So by default super is added I told you right.
Do you remember by default super is added.
So let's say remember this.
So you have class A and then you have class B which extends A okay.
So now when you are creating a new be object.
So you know that by default constructor will get invoked, right?
And inside this by default constructor there is a hidden super.
It will invoke the object of constructor of this a.
So that's why understand this for this inner class.
For this inner class, this is not a static.
This is associated with the object of this outer class.
So you have to invoke the object of this first.
So that's why we have to create a constructor of this and create an object of this outer class first
and then call super.
So as you know that when child class constructor invoke it, first invoke the constructor of the parent.
But here the parent is inner class.
This is the parent, right?
I have created an inner class as a parent, so it can only be accessed by the object of the outer class,
because this inner class classes are associated with the object of this, so you can only access the
super of it.
Once you have created an object of the outer class.
So this is the way of doing an inheritance of.
Inner class.
See, I have never used it in last year, but I wanted to show you the inheritance part of it, that
it is possible.
And what are the challenges and what are the things you have to consider before?
Got it.
Non-static.
Static.
One is simple.
It is associated with the class.
You can access that outer class dot nested class.
No problem.
Right.
And even that's why you don't need a constructor here because this is associated with the class.
You don't need to create its object.
You can even the super of this one will work out right because your nested that one.
But here because this is inner, this is associated with the object of it one.
That's why we have created its object first and then call the super.
And then you can access all the method which is inside this inner class.
Okay.
Got it.
Do practice it.
And one more thing I need to tell you about anonymous.
Very very important interview question.
Anonymous.
An inner class without a name is called as anonymous class.
So currently if you have seen that all the class we have given a name.
So any class which doesn't have a name is called anonymous class.
And how we can create a class with no name.
Let's see that.
But first to see when to use when it is used.
So when we want to override the behavior of the method without even creating any subclass, then anonymous
class is helpful.
Let's understand with this example.
So I have created one abstract class car and I have one abstract method press break.
So here, if you see that I don't want to create a, let's say Audi class.
I don't want to create it and implement this press break functionality.
I don't want to create this.
So now I am I'm in a particular method.
So but I can also do this with anonymously.
I don't have to create this file by myself.
Right now what happens is now let's see how anonymous is happening.
So I have created car let's say Audi car object like it's just a reference variable.
And I have created a new car and I have start implementing this also block started.
Now I am providing the implementation of this press break, uh, specific implementation here and this
block finish.
And just remember this semicolon later on.
It's kind of a statement.
End of statement.
So now this is the way of defining an anonymous.
So you are creating an object of this new car right.
And as you know that an abstract.
You can't create an object.
So generally I'll tell you what is happening at the behind.
So you are trying to create an object of a car and you have started.
You have given the implementation of the break and statement clause.
And now you can use this variable and call this method.
Now what two things happen behind the scene first.
Now let's see.
What two things happen.
First of all a subclass is created and name is decided by the compiler, right?
So now here if you see that, hey, this is an abstract class.
I haven't created any class with any name like audio and all, but I have given a proper implementation
of this method right in a block.
So what happened?
So what happened is it created a class.
So here, if you see that when I compile this class, what it does is it created one class here for
this one test certain dollar one, some randomly compiler generated a name.
Right.
If I could name I have given Audi, but I don't want to create this file.
I want to be created dynamically like without I want to create.
So compiler internally create a file for me.
Right.
And here if you see that what it does is it extends the car.
So if I do that I have done the same Audi extends car and then provide this Implementation the same
thing it has given.
It created a class which is decided by own.
It extends the car and provides its implementation and its reference.
It create an object of this one and it provide a reference at here.
Okay.
So this is how you do an anonymous classes right.
So if you have any class and if you wanted a particular implementation of it, you don't have to create
a class out of it.
Right.
And if it's a so you can do it dynamically by this new car and provide the implementation.
Right.
And semicolon.
Whatever the reference you have that you can use to call the method.
And internally I told you what happened.
It does the same thing.
It created a class with the name decided by the compiler.
Extends the car itself.
Implemented the method.
What we have given.
Created an object of the subclass of this one, and assigning a reference into this one.
Now we can use it.
Okay, so this is known as anonymous class.
Anonymous means we are creating one class without even giving any name.
And internally compiler does that for us okay.
Got it guys.
So that's pretty much till here.
And in the next class I will tell other type of classes generic pojo enum, final singleton, immutable
wrapper.
But practice this first and any question any doubt let me know and we will do this session two of this
classes soon.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java Generic Classes | Java Classes in Depth - Part2 ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
In the first part of the video type of classes I have already covered till here and today I am going
to cover the generic classes, which is very, very important.
And you will use it very, very frequently when you are working with the Java.
Right.
So uh, let's start with this.
Okay.
So I'll explain you this generic class, but with this example what it is, why we need it.
Right.
So understand this class.
Simple class okay.
So public class print.
Right.
So you know that this class is not a child class of any other class.
So by default this is a class.
This is a subclass of which class object.
So this class is the child class of object.
As you know that object is the parent of all okay.
And another thing is the parent object.
The parent object can hold the reference of.
Hold the reference of child object.
Okay, this things we know that you have a child object.
Your parent object can store the reference of it and object is the parent of all.
So now just understand this class.
So I have created a very very simple class of print right.
I have two method get print value and set print value.
The set print value is just setting the value in this.
Whatever the in the parameter I am getting and the get print value.
Just returning this value okay.
But only the here something which you have to notice that object right.
It can accept any any class object right.
Because this is the parent of all, no matter whether you are passing integer, string or any custom
class which you have created like I have created any other class, right?
It can accept all because this is the parent of all, it can hold the reference of child object and
all are its child.
Okay, so this is a very simple class.
Now let's see its main.
So I have created an object of this right.
So first I have created an object of this.
Now I'm invoking the method.
So first I am invoking set print value.
Set print value.
And what I am passing integer here one I'm passing integer.
So since integer is also a child class of object, it can accept it and it will set the value here.
Okay, now I am doing get print value so it will return object okay so you got the object.
Now here if you see that if I want to use it I have to do the typecasting.
That is the only problem with this because this object, you don't know whether it's an integer or a
string or any other class because it can be anything.
Right?
So you have to typecast it before using it.
Okay, because currently I have stored the integer.
I know that it's an integer, so that's why I have directly typecast it to int.
But what if I have?
Let's say another thing.
Let's say uh, set print value.
Hello.
This is a string.
This is also possible right.
Let's say there are multiple.
It can accept multiple.
Now we don't know right.
Whether it has integer or whether it has string or whether it has any other class.
So what you will do.
So you will do that okay.
This object the print value.
The print value.
Is it an instance of instance of integer or instance of string or instance of another class?
If yes.
If it is an integer, like typecast it to end.
If it is an instance of string, typecast is to end string.
Okay, so the major, major problem with this dealing with object is that you don't know what class
object it has.
So that's why you have to do a typecasting.
Okay.
So that is the problem.
So that's where the generic class comes into the picture.
So generic class helps you to write a class in a generic manner that helps you to avoid this typecasting,
which you will face because of this object.
Okay.
Object class.
Now let's see how to use it.
So what is the syntax is there is something called diamond syntax.
So inside this we have to define like this T right.
Or it can be anything a capital we can define that a b t anything okay.
So now the same class I am now converting into a generic class.
How.
So after this class name in the diamond text, you have to just put any of the in the caps any letter
T or A or B anything.
Okay, so in the compile time we can tell whether this class, wherever it is used, it has to be replaced
with either integer or string or with anything.
Okay.
So now just see this part to make it a generic class.
What I've done is I have the same class print in the diamond syntax.
I have added this t.
Now if you see that wherever I was using this object right now, it got replaced with t t.
Now I am returning t I'm getting the t this thing.
Okay.
Now how in the main method I am invoking the same earlier how you were creating an object print obj
equals to New print.
This is how we used to do it.
Now it's a generic class right.
It's a generic class.
So we have to tell hey you are creating a print.
But it's of what it can accept either integer or string or what.
So while creating an object we tell create of an integer type.
So now I'm creating a print of integer type.
Now you can only pass integer.
If now you are trying to pass print obj one dot set print value.
Now if I try to pass string hello, it will throw compile time error, right?
Because you have defined that it can only take care of integer.
Okay so that's how we create a generic class.
Now just notice one thing that with this t can be replaced with what.
It can be replaced with any non-primitive object.
You know that.
What is primitive object right.
There are, I think, eight eight primitive objects in float, double boolean and all these things short
and all.
So apart from that, it can be replaced with anything apart from non-primitive.
Apart from primitive.
Anything you can replace with it.
Okay.
Either interface abstract class like normal class or any object, you can replace it with it.
So ultimately, wherever you wanted to use this, you can use it like this in the return type or in
the parameter and all.
Okay.
So now see the advantage of it.
Like now I created uh this thing print of integer type.
Now I'm able to pass the integer I do the get print value.
It will do get print value.
And the return type is t okay.
So now I can easily accept that okay I will accept it in integer without even doing type casting.
So here, if you see that do we need now type casting.
No, because we have constraint that this print class can only take care of integer.
Now okay.
Now we can see that inheritance with generic class right.
So this is a very very simple right.
So this is important.
Let's say I'm creating with a non generic subclass.
So now let's say I have created this class now okay I understood that how I can create a very simple
generic class.
So the same example.
Now since this still it is a class I should be able to do inheritance right.
So let's say I am this print I am creating one child class of it is color print.
Okay.
It extends the this thing.
So now just understand this thing is this color print is not generic.
Let's say I am not making it generic kind of thing inside this diamond or not.
So whenever you have non generic subclass non generic subclass.
So this color print is non generic.
It is not a generic one.
So whenever it is so whenever you are extending from this print you have to define hey whether it should
be a string or it should be an integer at that time of extend itself okay.
So for this print, whenever you, your child class or subclass is non generic at the time of extend
or inheritance itself, you have to specifically define whether this class should be of a string or
integer or any other class.
Okay.
So now now let's say you have defined this.
It would be very easy the same creating an object of color print.
And now you are can store the string into here okay.
Very simple.
And similarly I think you get by now is what if there is a generic subclass.
So you have print.
Now you have a subclass right.
The child class of it.
But this is also a generic.
This is also a generic now.
So there you don't need to specify at that time whether it should be a string or not.
We will define it at the object creation time.
So now when I'm creating an object of this color print that time I tell that, hey, do it for the string
okay.
And then it will create an string object.
Okay.
So now let's see this more than one generic type example.
Now I told you that how to create a generic class.
You have you have defined a class name in this diamond syntax.
You have to define the type parameter generic type parameter.
And you know that we can have as many as generic type parameter, let's say T1T2T3T.
And you can define anyone.
Right.
So this is you can create as much as you want.
So like for example I have shown you here with the two one, so I'm creating a pair.
The class name as a pair.
Now I am creating two type parameters k and V.
K stands for key and let's say I am using v for value.
Key value pair right.
So I have a key object of type k v object value of type v.
When I will create an object, I will tell that the k is uh would be of integer or string, or what
value would be string or integer or what.
But for now I have told that okay, two type parameters are there and I can use this two like this for
different different variables.
So I have created one method put.
So I am getting key I'm getting value of this type and I'm assigning it very same similar to single
one.
I just wanted to showcase that it is possible that you will accept more than one also.
So let's say an example of this now.
So I am creating a pair.
How you will create an object pair.
Now since it's a generic type, we have to define this k and v of what.
So I have defined a string comma integer.
So means k is your string, v is your integer.
Okay so I've created an object.
Okay.
Once I've created an object I am putting here.
So now you can put k is your string right.
You can put a string here and v is your integer.
You can put integer here okay.
So this is how we can define more than one type parameter also okay.
And one thing you have noticed by now that this both syntax are right.
Let's say I have created pair string comma integer object equals to new pair.
Here also you can define string comma integer.
This is also right.
Or new pair?
This is also right.
We don't have to.
So if you have defined it here we don't have to again define it here.
But still you can do.
But it is just you can say that this is both the syntax are correct.
So here if you new pair only diamond you can specify that is also correct if you have specified in the
this one.
But if you want it you can also specify here like this.
We have defined it's an integer.
We have also defined integer here.
So both the syntax are correct.
No problem in that one okay.
So more than one generic type is clear right.
How we can support any number of type parameters here.
Now one thing you can ask like hey what if we want to make only one method or two method not the complete
class as generic, right?
What shall we do?
Yes, we can do support generic method also.
Okay.
So here if you see that we have created the whole class right.
So is it possible to support only one method as a generic.
Yes.
So generally if you see that this is the properties of it, I'll tell you the properties with an example.
So let's say this is the generic method.
Okay.
This is the generic method class.
So this is a generic method class.
Now here if you see that this is not a generic type this is not a generic type.
There is no diamond syntax over here or type parameter defined over here.
And it has one method print value.
Now here if you see that this print value is generic right.
So what is the method syntax.
So method syntax is.
So this is your return type.
This is your return type.
Before the return type you have to define the type parameter.
What this type parameter this method can get.
So let's say this T if you have more than two, you can define it like this.
If you have only one, you can define it like this okay, before the return type and after in the method
you can use that way let's say public class.
Uh, you can say that test any class and only one method I want to do it.
So let's say public t let's say only one parameter void.
Uh let's say set value.
Set value of type t.
Give me the value.
Now your method is start right.
That is also possible.
So what it will accept whether it's an integer or a string we don't know.
Let's see an example to create a this one generic.
So I can create public.
So this is like say void.
Avoid, uh, let's say print or let's say something set value.
Currently, I have a bus.
Car.
Let's say I am getting a bus object bus obj or bus object.
Okay.
So this is a very basic normal class normal method.
And you are getting one bus object right.
And here you can do something.
Now I want to change it to a generic method.
What I can do is like I can call by this t and change this object to t.
Okay.
So now in the main method I will create a print object first because I have to call the method to print
print obj equals to new print.
Now the print object dot set value.
So now this is t means it can accept anything.
Whatever you will pass, right?
So I will pass, let's say new bus.
It will accept bus.
So see?
Properly accepted.
Now let's say it also.
I also have a car also.
So let's say I will pass car.
It will properly accept that.
So if you see that it can accept anything.
So this is the way of generating making only one method generic.
So before the return type put the what is the type you wanted to accept.
Right.
You got it.
Like this is how we create a generic method.
So that's the two property.
The type parameter should be before the return type of the method declaration.
The type parameter scope is limited to the method only.
So here if you see that this t like wherever you can use it, it is within the scope of this method
only.
It's not like class in the class I have used t, so in the whole class different methods of this class,
you can use the T wherever you want.
But for this, if you have used specifically for method declaration, then method declaration would
be like whatever you have used, it will be within this method only.
Okay, now we see something.
There is something called raw type.
So when you're working with generics right.
You will also see that the understand this normal class.
Now by now you know that it's a generic class right?
At the class level I have defined the type parameter.
And in the whole class you will see this.
Wherever we wanted an object we have defined TT.
And during object creation we can replace it with whatever the object we wanted.
Now what is raw type then the raw type is let's say during object creation.
So see now I am creating an object.
This.
This is a parameterized type object means when you are creating a print object, you are defining like
hey, replace this t tree with a string with integer or do something.
So I'm creating a print object and since it's a generic class, I am defining, let's say change it
with string.
Change this type parameter with string.
Okay, this is one way.
This is another way.
This is known as raw type.
Here, if you see that I am creating an object like usual, I am creating an object like usual.
I am not passing this value for this tree.
I just created print object new print.
I didn't pass this.
What string or diamond parameter there.
So this is known as raw type object.
Okay.
By default internally compiler will pass kind of do this print pass object your raw type equals to new
print.
So if you don't for this generic class, for this generic class, while creating an object, if you
don't pass the type parameter, whether it should be a string or integer or anything, if you don't
pass it, you just create a normal object internally.
Compiler will pass it as an object, so internally it passes object as the parameter type.
Okay.
So now here if you see that for this raw one I am calling set print value, I am passing one so it will
accept it because it has passed object.
Object can accept anything.
Then I am also passing set print value string.
It will accept that also.
But you know that if you have defined it like this while creating an object.
If you have tell that okay create of string type, you can only pass string.
You can't pass integer.
But since you haven't defined anything you created of a raw type.
Internally, it passes an object.
You can pass anything.
Okay, so this is known as raw type.
You can also create a raw type generic.
Okay so till now we are clear.
Now let's understand what is bounded.
Generics.
Okay.
So now you have understand this that hey I can create a generic class like class.
Uh I have class name, let's say bus.
I can create a generic, uh, let's say t now I can work on this like t my value wherever I want it.
I can use it whether integer or string.
I can use that right now.
You can say that.
Hey, can I bound this type parameter.
Can I bound this type parameter.
Because currently during object creation client can pass anything.
It can pass integer.
It can pass me string.
It can pass me anything.
Can I bound the type that you can pass to me?
Right.
Restrict that.
Okay.
Out of this values only you can pass an object to me.
So that is one known as bounded generics.
It can be used at generic class and method.
And it is used to restrict like what all objects you can pass at this type parameter.
So there is of two types upper bound multi bound right.
So let's first understand the upper bound.
So upper bound syntax is very simple.
So do you know how to create a generic class.
Now it is very simple.
So I'm using the same example class print t okay.
So now and you have t whatever value.
So now you know that this t can be replaced with any object okay.
At a compile at a runtime.
Whenever the object is created we can pass either integer or string.
But I want to, uh, restrict it.
That only numbers or so you know, that hierarchy that you have a number class.
So we have an object, then its child is, I think, number.
Then there are multiple child classes of number is let's say integer double okay.
So let's see that what are the child classes of number.
Let's say I'm creating one number java.lang.
So what are the child classes of number.
Uh bigdecimal.
Big integer double float integer long.
So these are all the child classes of it okay.
So these are all the child classes of a big integer, right.
Uh, big decimal.
So and they're also a child classes of object is let's say string.
And there could be so many.
So now if I have only this tea you can either pass number.
you can either pass integer, double string or any other thing, but I want to restrict that.
Hey, you can pass me number or it's all it's below it.
All the below all it's childs right.
So this is known as upper bound.
You have set the upper bound that okay.
You can pass me this object upper bound object and all its child object.
So let's say this is how you can define an upper bound is T extends.
And the upper bound class.
This is your upper bound class name.
So the same thing now like you have defined a T right now I want to make sure that, uh, let's say
only number and all its child classes only out of this only objects you can able to pass me.
Not any other thing.
So I can do that t t extends Number.
So now what?
All objects you can pass me.
You can pass either number.
You can pass either integer, double big integer, big decimal, float and all but all the child classes
of number, number and below it.
Okay.
If you try to pass now string, it won't work.
It will show you a compile time error.
So this is known as upper bound right.
And don't confuse this extend with that.
In the class extend we use like uh for let's say class A you create a child.
Class B you do extends if it is an interface.
Interface A and you create a class B, what you do implement.
So those things are different.
This is different.
So this extend keyword.
So here you can upper bound.
So here you can have a class name or interface also.
So it would still be extend only you don't have to switch it with implements and all.
Okay, so you understood this.
What?
How to do an upper bound?
Upper bound means the class and all its child classes it can accept now.
Okay, so just see this example.
So I have created a print.
Now I have do the upper bounding for this t type parameter.
That t extends number means whatever the object now can become either number or below it.
So rest of the things are same.
Nothing changed.
Now see while I'm doing the object creation.
So now I am creating a print object I pass integer.
So integer is a child of integer is a child of number.
So this will work fine.
I have created an object of it.
Now see another example I wanted to create print.
I'm passing a string.
now.
A string is not a child of number.
It is not a child of number.
Right.
So it won't work.
So this will be a compilation error here.
If you see this is a compilation error because we have bounded this what all objects it can expect.
Either it can expect numbers or below or its child classes.
So now let's start with the multi bound.
Okay.
So now just recall one of the couple of features of Java that you already know that by now we have covered
it.
So you have subclass and you have let's say parent class.
So a subclass can extend from the parent class right.
Only one.
But if there are more than one parent class can it allow no Java.
Do not allow to extend from more than one parent class.
And I think you already know the reason I have covered in the previous class.
Also, just in a quick manner.
You know that.
Why?
It is not because let's say if it has method one, it is also have the same method.
Method one.
Right.
And using this object you are calling that okay subclass object subclass object dot one.
Method one.
Which one to invoke, whether this or this.
So there is a conflict.
So that's why Java can only allow to extend from one class.
But you can implement multiple interfaces.
Let's say you have three interfaces.
Interface one.
Interface two.
Interface three.
You can this subclass can implement interface one, interface two.
Interface three.
All three interfaces it can implement.
Right.
Because subclass has to override the method if they all have m1.
M1 m1 there will not be any definition here.
So subclass has to provide the definition of M1.
And when it calls this m1 it will call this only.
So there is no conflict.
So with that being said now understand multi pound.
So multi pound say that if you have any class right.
Let's say I am having a class A which extends let's say parent class okay.
One extends it's allowed.
And it also implements multiple interfaces.
If you want this exact in your uh type parameter.
Also that okay my type parameter I should only allow only those objects which also has the same kind
of relation.
Then I can also use multi bound parameter type parameter.
So here what I have done is t extend.
So now I have defined this here parent class and.
Interface one and interface two.
So the first parameter should be your concrete class.
It should be your concrete class.
And from second it can be any, any interfaces because there is no limit on the interface implementation.
A class can implement interface one.
Comma.
Interface two.
Comma interface three.
It can implement any number of interface.
That's why during foundation it says that the first one.
Just tell the if it is a concrete class or not.
Okay.
Once the concrete is there, then after that you can define any number of interfaces you wanted.
Okay.
So now let's understand this how this foundation works.
So okay so now I have created a print.
The type parameter is t.
Now I am doing a foundation of it.
I am doing extends parent class this and this.
So what does it say.
Is that similar kind of structure I wanted for my any object you are going to pass me.
So now let's say I'm creating an object.
I am creating a new object.
Okay.
A object.
So this is the A object class a object.
So now here, if you see that class A, class A is extended parent class okay.
So it extends the parent class implements the interface also.
So this will work fine.
This will work fine.
But now let's say if class is my this public class A let's say it extends parent class and implements
only one interface interface one.
So what I'm saying is I am extending the parent class, but only implementing only one interface, not
the second one.
And if I am trying to pass it now while creating a print object, I am now what object I am passing
a I am passing a.
will this work now?
No, it won't work because it is expecting the object to be child of this.
Also implementing this interfaces.
So is child of this.
It will okay, but it implemented only one interface one.
What about interface two?
So that's why it will not work.
So that's why this is called as multi bound.
So now you are bound to that.
It should meet all.
So it should be parent class or below it.
But it should also implement interface one.
Interface two also.
Now see this wild cards let's say first understand with this like I am creating a print method okay.
And I am creating a one simple method.
Uh, let's say set uh print values.
So certain values.
So I have a list of let's say, or I have my custom right bus, car and all.
So let's say I have list of vehicle, I have list of vehicle.
And understand this structure is what I have is vehicle.
Then it has two child, one is bus and one is car.
So here if you see that vehicle is one class bus is also extending it.
So here if you see bus extends vehicle.
So bus is a child of vehicle.
Car is also a child of vehicle.
Now I have created a this thing vehicle list.
Simple okay.
Now understand this.
I am creating a list of vehicle.
My vehicle list equals to new.
ArrayList.
Okay.
And I have created another of let's say bus.
Bus.
I have buses list equals to new ArrayList okay.
So now you know that here and I'll let me explain you with this.
Also that I have a vehicle or vehicle obj vehicle object equals to new vehicle.
And I have a bus.
Bus obj equals to new bus.
Now explain this first.
Then I'll come to that.
So you know that vehicle is the parent of bus.
So is this a valid vehicle object equals to bus object.
Is this a valid.
Yes, this is a valid because parent object can keep the object of a child, right?
This is totally valid.
Okay, but now here see this I have a list of vehicle and I have a list of bus.
Is this a valid vehicle list equals to bus list.
Is this a valid.
No, this is not valid.
Right.
Because list of vehicle.
This doesn't make it a parent of this list of bus.
Why why this is not valid.
Okay so and also this is also not valid.
Bus list equals to vehicle list.
This is both are not valid.
Understand this.
Why.
So now let's say list of vehicle.
List of vehicle.
In the list of vehicle I can create an object of bus and car both.
So let's say I have a vehicle list dot add new bus.
Yes, you can store it because it's a parent and in the parent you can hold the object of this one vehicle
list.
Add new car.
Yes it can.
So this is totally fine because I have a list of vehicle objects and list of vehicle object.
And in the list I can either create a bus.
I can either create a new car.
Now if you are assigning it to a this one.
So this why this is invalid.
See this is bus list.
List of bus.
Right now if you are assigning it this vehicle list, this will invalid because you are trying to store
it a list of bus.
But here if you see that it has a bus object also car object also.
So this is not a valid.
Okay.
Now what about the second one.
second one is not valid because.
So if you see that vehicle list reference, it can create an object of bus.
It can create an object of car.
But if you are doing this bus list.
So bus list intention is to create the object of only buses, not car.
But if you if Java allows it to store into the vehicle list right now in the vehicle list I can also
add car.
Also, nobody is going to stop me, so these are not valid.
So that's what I'm going to say.
You that this is different right.
Objects are different.
This list is different.
So now understand with this why I told you this.
I have created one method in the print class and I have list of vehicle.
Now if I want to pass this I have this.
I want to pass this Print my print obj equals to new print.
Print object dot set print value.
Now I want to pass the vehicle list.
It will work fine because it is expecting list of vehicle.
Now I want to make it the same method run for its child.
Also let's say can I pass bus list?
No, this will not work because I have already told you this bus list is not a child of vehicle list,
right?
So now list is generic class.
You have passed vehicle, right?
But here if you see that it is restricting it.
Now how to overcome this solution with the wild card.
Now let's say in the wild card what we can do in the wild card.
There are two things possible upper bound, lower bound and unbound.
Three things are possible.
Let's say first upper bound.
Upper bound.
I think you already know with the name from this previous.
Also, whatever the name we will give same class and all its below class are allowed.
So what we can do is inside this method, the wild card is question mark.
Okay, the question mark extends vehicle.
So now this is the way to define a upper bound wild card.
So currently because of vehicle it is very ah you can only pass the list of vehicles.
But with the wild card and you know that it's an upper bound syntax extends means vehicle and its child
class.
So here if you see that here you can even pass the vehicle list.
It will work because list of vehicle is also allowed.
List of vehicle is also allowed.
And then its child class list of bus is also allowed.
Okay now another is lower bound wild card.
Lower bound wild card is.
The method and all its superclass.
So whatever the lower bound class name we will give.
So you can pass it that and all its parent class also.
So what is the syntax.
So let's say I can give let's say uh vehicle same.
But here we use for lower bound we use super.
So now can you tell me like uh is it valid.
So now let's say can you, uh, what what is the passed lower bound is wild card operator.
And it is a lower bound super.
So means vehicle and above it.
So vehicle will work.
So definitely vehicle will work.
No issues can bus will work.
No bus will not work now because it is not above vehicle.
Who is the above vehicle?
So vehicle is the child of nothing.
So by default it's a child of what object.
So you can pass list of object.
Object list.
So that is acceptable.
So super means lower bound means.
Class name whatever the lower bound class name.
And it's above.
Okay.
So now we have known that what is upper bound.
What is lower bound.
Wild card.
And before reaching to the unbounded wild card, a question should come to your mind, right?
Hey, whatever you have told, can't we achieve with generic type parameter like the we have seen,
right?
So why do we need it?
Let's see this first.
Understand this.
Why do we need this wild card or what?
All places.
So let's say I am creating one, uh, normal method of wild card.
Let's say, uh, compute list something.
I'm just taking random, uh, name.
And, uh, here, I'm having a list of.
I'm creating a wild card.
This extends.
Number.
So I'm creating an upper bound.
So this is my let's say source.
And also I am having a creating a destination.
Source and destination list.
Okay.
So the similar type of this thing can I create this as a part of.
So this is your wild card method.
I can create one generic type method with this public t extends number.
Uh void.
Compute list.
Let's say I'm giving one.
Uh, this is another method.
And then T is your source.
And uh, we can have like okay list of T is your source list of T is your destination.
Okay, so here let's say you have this.
Now here, if you see this, you can see that this is, uh, like why do we need wildcard if I can achieve
the same thing with the generic type.
So I can even have like, uh, so this generic type means number and all its below integer float.
That is possible.
Okay.
So here also wildcard say that uh t uh wildcard extends number means I can have a list of integer list
of float and all this thing.
So why it is required.
What is the difference between these two.
When to use both or when to use which one.
So understand few difference okay so I am writing uh the differences here okay.
So understand few difference.
First here if you see in the wild card.
So let's say I have created two lists source and destination.
Okay, so now here it is little bit more flexible.
Let's say your source could be let's say in the main method I can have list of integer because it is
extends number right extends number.
So number and its child classes.
So I can create this are like wild card integer source list.
Certain I am just giving a random name like a new ArrayList.
So I'm creating one source list which is of integer right?
And lets me call this method.
So this will help you to clarify when to use which one.
Otherwise it will become a very confusion like hey, which one to use?
Why not think otherwise?
You will get clear, but it will difficult to know like which one to use.
So see?
And it is possible that I am passing float.
Destination.
So this both is accepted.
Now see here what happened.
So in the wild card.
So with this one it can accept any list which is number or below.
So both integer and float are just a child of number.
So here if you see that in the source I passed a list of integer and in destination I passed a list
of float right.
But here, if you see that it is not enforcing me to pass list of integer to both.
But if you want this type of kind of restriction that okay, no, all should be of same type.
It can't be of different type.
Then this can be achieved through this one generic type.
Now let's say I'm creating a print object dot compute list one.
So I am passing a source list.
Can I pass this destination list of float type?
No, because now it is informing me that you can pass one type.
Now it has a type.
Now what type you are passing.
Okay, so either you pass only one type, either integer or float.
You can't pass me both.
You can't pass me both, right?
So that's why here it is.
Throwing an compile time error.
But during this wild card, it didn't throw an error because it just accepted all the child classes
below it.
And there is no restriction that all should have a same type.
Okay, so that is one difference.
You got the first difference right.
So in generic type method, or if you have a case where you want all the parameters should have very
restrictive one type, they can't have different types and all.
Then it is better to use generic type instead of wild card, because in wild card you can have different
type of parameters.
There is no control.
Second thing is, uh, in generic class I can use super lower bound number and above.
But here in the generic type method you can't have uh super keyword.
So that is not possible.
So if you have something specific to lower bound and all use scenarios, uh, then go for the wildcard
method.
Right.
You have a use case where okay I can get an object this and above.
Then it can only possible with the wild card.
And also one more thing is like here with the generic type you can have multiple this thing k v t and
all let's say right.
You can have any type of type parameter.
But here you can't have multiple question mark.
You can have only one question mark.
So even whenever you have only one type of parameter, you can either try to go for wildcard.
Even that can also be done through generic type.
But yeah, uh, there is.
You can say that one advantage of generic type method is like you can have more type parameters.
Okay.
So these are one small small differences where which allow you to like choose which capability you want.
Some has more capability some is little bit more flexible but some brings more structure like restrict
something and has certain other features like which I have shown you here.
Okay.
So this is a difference is clear right.
When to use wildcard and when to use generic types.
So now let's see unbounded wildcard.
Unbounded wildcard is nothing.
But it's like this.
Simply question mark.
So when to use this one.
So see when to use this one is when you know that your method can work mostly on your object, whatever
the methods which are available in the object class.
Right.
So you know that parent is object of all the classes.
So there are very generic methods present into object like size and all this thing, very, very generic
methods.
So if you think that your method can work on those methods which are available in object, then you
can go for this one, right?
Because in a couple of cases and you don't know what is the type, what would be the object type.
You can have number string and all.
Like you don't know what is the what what list you can have.
You don't know the type.
So in that case you can use question mark that you can accept a list of anything.
List of integer, list of string, list of any other class.
You can do that.
But what all classes and what all things you can access it like mostly on the objects part because you
don't know which object it is.
You don't know which object it is.
So you all have like object, right?
So like you can have is like object.
OBE equals to let's say source dot get zero.
Now what object it has we don't know.
It could be some other string integer some other class we don't know.
So all you can do is all the methods which are present into this object.
From that if you can do certain computation and find out or do the computation for your method work,
fine.
Now let's see.
The last topic here is type erasure.
What is type erasure?
It is very simple.
See, whatever the code we write, ultimately when the byte code is generated, when the byte code is
generated, it is all replaced with the actual values.
So let's say generic class erasure.
So I have created one very simple generic class right T and this one when the byte code has been generated.
So this is just I haven't generated the byte code.
But I'm saying that after byte code, how it going to be look like when the bytecode is generated.
This generic and all got erased.
These all got replaced with the values.
So for this where you have defined the classes like this.
T right.
This got replaced with internally object.
Right.
For this one you have like bounded T extends number.
This is the maximum.
This is the class and all its below class.
So when you compile it this bytecode will be generated like all this T would be replaced with this number.
And it will work fine with all of its child classes also.
Similarly that's why it is changes that it will all work with its child classes also.
Okay.
So similarly generic method.
So you when you write a generic method you write it like this way.
But when you generate a bytecode how it will gonna look like.
So this it will look like a normal method and it will be replaced This unbounded one.
So this is known as unbounded right.
So unbounded your type parameter would be replaced with object.
Similarly generic bound type method parameter.
So like t extend bus.
And what it will get replaced with this t is like with the bus.
And this thing will get removed here.
So this is nothing known as this is known as type erasure.
Like you created this generic class.
But when you generate a byte code internally, it removes those, right?
It only understand normal classes and methods.
It just so you can say that generic is certain functionality, but ultimately it replaces whatever the
type based upon this information.
Okay so guys this is very very important.
Do practice with your hand all the possible use cases.
Right.
And if any question any doubt comes in please feel free to ping me.
So that's pretty much from my side from the generic classes and the methods and all.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Java Enum, POJO and Final Classes Explained with Examples | Java Classes - Part3 ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh or ARB generic classes we have already covered in the second session of this classes.
And today I am going to cover this three Pojos enum and final.
So this is the third part of this video.
So it's a big topic to cover if you go in depth.
And currently we are going in depth on.
Finally in the fourth part I will cover this last three.
Okay.
So let's today cover this Pojos enum.
So here if you see there is lot of different type of enum which I wanted to cover, right?
And the final singleton immutable and wrapper will cover in the next part.
I'll cover then in the maybe I think uh the next video I'll cover this up.
Okay.
Let's start with our part three with the Pojo classes.
So what is Pojo.
So see Pojo First of all, full form is plain old Java object, right?
So now here in the name say Old Java object.
So old Java objects means very simple class, right?
No fancy things.
It contains variables and its getter and setter method.
Okay.
The class should be public.
It should have public default constructor.
Okay.
No annotation like at the rate entity.
At the rate table.
Like on annotation on the variables.
Nothing.
No annotation.
It should not have any annotation.
It should not extend any class or any or it doesn't implement any interface.
Right.
If a class has this properties then a class is known as Pojo classes okay.
So just remember few things that it has.
No it has very less restriction.
Right?
So here I have created a very simple class student.
So here if you see that student does it extend anything.
Does it implement any interface.
No.
Okay.
One good thing it is public.
Yes okay.
So another thing here.
If you see that it has a variable right.
So no restriction.
So here I have created one variable default.
Another is private.
Another is protected.
You can create another public right.
So there is no restriction anything.
And I have a getter setter for this get and set methods for the name.
Similarly for each one okay.
So the default constructor is always a public.
So I haven't uh so it's uh has a public default constructor.
So this property is also satisfied class should be public.
So yeah this is also satisfied it has a variables and getter and setter.
Yes it has right.
Uh no annotation used.
I haven't used uh at the rate uh entity or at the table here something.
Right.
So it doesn't have any annotation and it doesn't extend any class or implement any interface.
It doesn't extend or implements anything.
So these type of classes is known as Pojo.
Right.
So where does it this used.
So right here I will tell you that see in whenever I work day to day right.
I, I do use a term lot of term time pojos here.
Right.
One Pojo.
So see I'll tell you two places.
Generally I write a pojos only first places when a request comes to our system.
Let's say this is our component.
This is client.
Client send a request.
So let's say request has certain object ID name something or two fields ID and name.
It's a request object.
So when the component receives this data.
So it is always advisable that don't work on this object.
Right.
Do like a massager.
Do you have a massage this and have in a like so.
Because in a component there might be different classes right.
So it have class one, class two, class three, class four.
And you might need this kind of data this data to be used by multiple classes.
So it is it is a good practice that whatever the objects which is coming from the request, that should
not be used directly by all the classes in our component.
Why?
Because if anything, you have to change here.
Let's say uh, because of certain thing, ID has to be changed to customer underscore ID, then it is
possible that it might cause an issue in all the classes.
Okay, so it is always advisable that you should do 1 to 1 mapping in your component, which all the
rest of the classes understand.
So there we write one Pojos.
So let's say in that Pojo I have a variable name int here in the request it is id.
But here I am saying uh let's say uh customer ID.
And here they are saying name.
I am saying here string customer name.
Right.
And I have a getter setter here.
Now whatever this ID comes I do a mapping.
So I first create an object of this and fill this value id.
I fill this in customer id name, I fill this in customer name and all other classes use this Pojo.
Okay not this.
And if in future anything change, it would be a change only at one place while doing a mapping because
rest of the code understand this class, not this one.
Okay, so this is one place where the Pojo helps.
Okay?
There might be another place like you have a like request comes in.
It goes through controller right where you have our Rest APIs.
Then from Rest API it goes to the business logic okay.
From business logic it goes to your repo repository okay.
So there it creates Pojos.
Or you can say that it has entity objects.
Generally we can say that let's say one for let's say you are creating a certain student table.
So you have one student entity.
So there you have a student Pojo kind of thing.
And then ultimately we store into the DB.
Okay.
So generally two places, uh, which mostly I deal with and uh, maybe as a software engineer, you
might be see that generally these are the places where you need more pojos.
Okay.
So just a simple example, but what is Pojo?
I think that should be clear to you, right?
A very, very simple Java class.
Right.
Okay.
Now let's go to enum class.
So see this is very interesting.
Right now if you see that enum so what it has first of all it has a collection of constants.
Before going forward.
Do you know what is constant in the variable class?
I have told that how to define a constant.
You know that using a static final keyword we can create a constant right?
Using static final we can create a constant.
So then what is enum?
Enum as a collection of constant.
You can have more than one constant in this enum class okay.
And what is constant variables.
Which values cannot be changed okay.
So it's constant in enum class.
Whatever the constant you will define, they are static and final implicitly, so means we don't have
to for each constant.
We don't have to tell static final, so they are implicitly static and final in enum class.
Right.
So these are some of the properties which I will explain.
But first question should have comes to your mind that hey, when we have already have a way to define
a constant using static final, why we need a enum class, right?
So that's where I have covered this also.
I have covered this part, but I will tell you later only because first you need to understand how to
define enum.
What are the advantages?
Then only you would be able to understand what is the benefit of enum class, when we can already create
a constant through static final.
So we will cover this also.
So please hold this question for now.
But let's first understand what is enum right.
And then we will see the difference where it helps actually okay so there are few properties of it right.
And we will see that first property is it cannot extend any class.
Why why it cannot extend any class.
Because we are calling it a class then class we know that by definition it should.
It can extend at least not at least at most one class.
Right.
So why it cannot extend any class because it internally extends Java dot lang enum class.
So all the enums like.
So this is how we can create an enum class public instead of class.
So you create a class by like this public class keyword.
And let's say any class name right.
Let's say test.
So this is how you create a class.
So how you create an enum.
So we don't use a class keyword we have to use enum keyword.
And even though we are not extending anything implicitly it extends Java dot dot enum class.
So that's why you can't do extends here because we cannot extend from more than two parents.
Right.
You guys already know by now, right?
Uh, we cannot extend more than two parents.
That is not allowed only from one parent.
We can extend.
Right.
And even though we are not writing anything here, it internally extends Java dot lang dot enum.
That's why enum classes cannot be cannot extend any class.
It can implement interfaces as you know class can implement as many as interface.
So here it is also allowed.
It can implement interfaces.
No restriction over there.
It can have variable constructors and methods.
I will tell you how to create those.
It cannot be initiated right.
It cannot be initiated as its constructor will be private only.
Even if you give default in bytecode, it will be private.
So whatever the enum you will generate class.
Its constructor is always private.
Let me show you.
Right.
So this is the enum sample I have created one enum class public enum and I have given the name enum
sample Example, I have created an enum like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday,
Sunday.
Right.
So these are all the constants.
I'll go more in depth.
Right.
Uh, what their mean is.
But what I wanted to show you that see this dot class file.
Right.
This is the byte code.
Right.
So here, if you see that I haven't defined any constructor, so means there would be one by default
constructor there and see what it generated private.
So by default even it is generated a private itself.
So that's why we are saying that it cannot be initiated because constructor is private in enum it will
always be constructor will be private.
Right.
No other class can extend enum class also.
That is also it has one restriction that no other class can also extend it.
Okay, it can have abstract method, and all the constants should implement that abstract method.
So I will uh, discuss this point also, but these are few of the properties which you should know.
And we'll go through these properties one by one okay.
So let's go with the normal enum class first okay.
So now with the definition of enum what is enum.
It is used to create constant.
Now how to create a constant.
So here now what I have been doing is first of all I'm creating an enum class public using an enum keyword.
Right.
And the name, whatever the name you wanted to give it to an enum class.
Okay.
Now here you can give the constant like this.
Like I have given the constant like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
And remember this semicolon at the end.
Okay, so I have given the constant like this.
Right.
So maybe there might be a different use cases.
You might to have a constant.
Right.
Uh, let's say for example, there was, uh, like, uh, coins in the coins, you have ₹1 coin.
Uh, maybe, uh, sent.
So these are constant and, uh, you might you can also define values.
I will come to it.
But these are constant which have certain values are constant which cannot be changed.
Right.
So here I have used this values.
And these are now my enums here.
Internally its values are given as zero started from
00123456.
Right.
So in the enum whatever the constant you are defining.
Internally there is one value is assigned to them which is started from zero.
The first one has a value like a zero.
Then here my Tuesday is one, Wednesday is two, Thursday is three.
Likewise.
Similarly, Sunday is my six.
Starting from zero it is started.
Okay, I told you that constant has always has certain value.
Certain value which cannot be changed.
So here in the constant, if you haven't defined any, uh, custom values, we will see how to define
a custom value.
If you have just define a constant name but you haven't defined any value.
So internally there is a value is already assigned to them unique values which is started from zero.
Now let's see.
So you have created this enum class and defined your constant right basic no custom values.
And uh, you know that 0 to 0 numbering has been assigned to it.
So they have certain values right now in the method.
Let's see how to use it.
So these are four common methods which is used generally in the enum.
So with this two samples I will show you how to use this for.
So now we have already created the enum class.
Now let's say I'm showing you the first usage of values and ordinal.
Okay, so now I have to iterate over this constant.
I have to iterate over this constant.
How I can iterate.
So enum sample values right.
So here if you see that I haven't defined you can ask me hey we haven't defined values method.
Right.
And it is trying to access directly through class name.
So what method you can directly access to class name which are static, right?
And it is calling values.
Method values is not even defined here.
Then how it is able to access those.
Where is this method?
I told you, right.
Internally it extends Java dot lang dot enum class in.
In this class this method is present which is static in nature.
So what this class, what this method does is it gives you a array.
It returns an array of this constants right?
First Monday, then Tuesday, then Wednesday, then Thursday, then Friday and Saturday.
Sunday.
Right.
So I am taking one by one in the for loop one by one are enum sample and the variable.
And then I am putting what ordinal.
Okay so here first of all you got the usage of the values right.
So values usage is getting each enum Getting each enum in an array form, it will return in an array
form like.
This would be the output enum.
Sample this array.
This would.
This is the return type for this one array.
And now I am iterating one by one.
Whatever the arrays are, I am getting first Monday, then Tuesday and all.
And for each one let's say first sample would be Monday.
For Monday I am doing dot ordinal and what it will print ordinal.
I told you that there is a default values assigned to it which is started from zero.
These are known as ordinal ordinals, right?
When you print dot ordinal.
So you will see that first it prints zero, then in the values.
Second it will come Tuesday.
So Tuesday variable Tuesday sample dot ordinal.
It will print one, then Wednesday.
Wednesday dot ordinal two, then three, then four five, and then for last values is Sunday.
So Sunday.
Sample dot ordinal.
It will print six.
Okay so you got it.
What is the purpose of values.
It will return an array so that we can iterate over this.
All the enums.
And then ordinal is used to get this default uh numbering of this one.
And then there is something called value of a name.
So let's see this one okay.
So now I have this value of method.
Again I haven't defined in this class.
So this is also a static method present into the Java dot lang dot enum class which is a parent of this
class.
So I called this and I send a name Friday.
Hey I don't I don't have a uh, this enum sample variable for this one, but I know the name.
So here value of just pass a string.
So what it will do is it will match up with the name of your constant Monday Tuesday Wednesday.
Internally it iterate and its match with okay the name has been match exact name.
So it's a.
So if you have passed the capital letter.
So it will exactly check for the capital letter only.
So Friday has been match so it will return me the enum sample object right for this Friday one.
And if you want to print its name.
So there is another method called name.
So this is known as name.
So when you do name this name ultimately get printed the constant names right.
So now I am printing dot name enum variable.
Which one.
It I got it.
So it say for Friday.
So Friday it will match this and it will return this.
It will return this enum sample.
And then for this enum sample I am doing dot name.
So what it will print Friday only.
Capital Friday only.
Okay so you got it.
This.
What is the purpose of this for method values is used to iterate over the constants.
Ordinal is to uh know the default values which is automatically assigned starting from zeros.
Value of is like you just pass the string.
It will internally iterate.
Find out the enum object for you, right?
And uh, with the name it will return.
What is the name of the constant you have given?
Okay.
So this is a normal enum class.
So with this normal enum class I think one thing should be clear with you is this extent part right
and it cannot be initiated.
That's also, I have shown you that all its constructors are private, no matter if you given default
also.
Right.
Okay.
Now let's see more things.
Enum with custom values okay.
So now here I told you that if you haven't assign any values, yes they have certain ordinals which
uniquely has value for them.
Okay.
But you can even define certain custom values like this.
So for Monday I have defined two values.
One is v.
So there are two.
Variables I have defined.
So now remember one thing whatever you will define Here.
Whatever the method you are defining, that is for each, that is, for each constant, that is, for
each constant.
Okay, I have defined.
One is integer type val and another of my variable is string.
Comment.
So Monday has this two things.
Tuesday has its own these two things like this.
All the constant has this.
So now how to fill this value for each one.
So Monday has two.
So see I told you one thing that its constructors are private.
That's why they cannot be initiated right.
So even if you see here I haven't defined anything.
So means by default it is default.
But you know that it is.
When you create a bytecode it will be created as a private only.
Right.
I showed you previously.
Now.
So now here.
If you see that its constructors are always private means it cannot be initiated.
But this private constructor can be initiated from within this class itself and how it can be initiated.
So here, here, if you see that Monday it is calling constructor here actually.
So it is passing 101 and one string.
First day of the week.
It is passing one string.
And this values are assigned here in the value and command.
So this is for this Monday.
Similarly it is for Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday and Sunday right.
So for whatever the custom values you wanted to define two, three, four and all.
So the appropriate member variables you need to have okay.
First thing Second thing, you need to have a parameterized constructor.
Like if so, here in this I have two variables.
One is integer, another is string.
So here I have a constructor.
One is accepting the integer, another is string and I am initializing this.
Variables.
These also are for each method for each constant Monday.
Also you will have get well get comment Tuesday also Wednesday.
Also they internally have their version right.
And whatever the method which you wanted to keep at a class level, you have to define it as static
so that it won't be there for each constant separately.
Okay, now I have one method like based upon this value.
So let's say I pass the value one zero 5 or 1 zero six.
Any integer, let's say 107.
So what I am doing is enum sample dot value.
So when you do values what it will do is it will iterate.
It will iterate.
So first Monday it will come.
So it's a Monday sample object.
What I'm doing is Monday sample dot val.
So it's dot val.
So what value it has 101 right.
So is it equals to let's say 107.
No.
Then next one.
So similarly at when Sunday comes.
So Sunday dot val Sunday dot val is 107.
Is it equals to this.
Then it will return me the object of Sunday one.
And here if you see that this is a static, this is static means it is related to this enum class,
not for each constant.
Okay.
And this is how we can use it that I created that get enum from value I passes 107 because it is static.
I don't need an object of it.
I can directly call with a class name.
Okay, and once I got it, so which object I will got Sunday one right?
So Sunday has 107 value.
So what I am printing are the Sunday sample variable dot get command.
So it's get comment I am getting.
So it will return the comment this one.
And what is present over here.
It's second week of.
So it will print second week off.
So you got it.
How enum with custom values work.
Now let's see method override by constant.
Now here I created a simple enum class again public enum enum sample okay Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday, Friday.
Saturday, Sunday.
Forget about this now.
Forget this.
Don't worry about this one.
So I have just created a Monday, then Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
Like this.
Previously like this Monday to Sunday.
Simple, right?
And I have told you that any method you declare here, bottom of this semicolon, it would be it would
not be a common.
It would be like separate for each one for Monday.
It will also have its dummy method.
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
All has this method, right?
But let's say Monday.
Say that, hey, I don't want this method.
I want to override this method like I want to make certain changes.
Then you can also override it also.
Okay, how you can override it.
See I have defined one dummy method here Idea and printing default dummy method.
So now this whenever you get a Tuesday.
Object Tuesday enum sample dot Tuesday and you do dummy method.
It will do this.
But if Monday want to override it you can override like this.
And there it override.
It's a dummy method.
So see same method name same parameter.
Everything should be same.
And I'm putting Monday dummy method okay so this is how you override it.
Similarly in Tuesday.
Also you can write your own.
Right.
So just see this Monday I have initiated the parentheses.
Right.
And inside this create a method which will override this.
Now I am calling.
So let's say I am creating for enum sample dot Friday.
So enum sample Friday.
So this variable I am calling its dummy method which one it will call.
So see, I haven't overrided this for the Friday one, so it will call this one default dummy method.
Default dummy method.
Now enum sample dot Monday enum sample dot Monday.
Now I am calling dot dummy method, so which one it will call?
I have override it so it will call Monday dummy method Monday dummy method.
So you got it right how to override it.
And I think now it will make more sense to you when I say that each method is like for each one.
Monday also has this.
Tuesday also has this right?
You can because you can still override it.
Inside this one you can.
Instead of before putting comma, you can start the block and override those.
Okay.
So I think a method override you got how to do it and what generally this thing.
Now just see this enum with abstract method.
So sometimes what you want is like like you know like what is abstract.
You just define it.
So Monday Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday, Friday I just take three Monday Tuesday and Sunday okay.
Semicolon.
And after that I have put one abstract method right.
Public abstract void.
And if you see there it is only declaration no definition.
And you know that whenever you create an abstract method, its child classes have to define it, right?
But in the abstract, whenever you create an abstract method, all the constant have to override and
provide the definition of it.
So here, if you see that I have created one abstract method dummy method.
Now Monday is providing its definition.
Dummy method in Monday Tuesdays also has to provide the definition because this is abstract, so all
content has to provide.
So Tuesday block started and it is providing this dummy method in Tuesday.
Similarly Sunday in Sunday.
Okay.
Now from the main method let's say I have enum sample dot Monday.
So I got Monday constant and I'm printing dot dummy method.
So it will print its dummy method in Monday.
So it will print in Monday.
Okay.
So you know that in abstract method is also allowed in enum and how it generally takes care of the abstract
method.
So what if any abstract method is defined each constant has to define it or implement it.
Okay Now enum implement interface.
So now here if you see that hey I don't want like each one to do it.
I can want constant like they can use only all this constant can use one functionality.
Right.
So here if you see that I have created an interface, let's say I have given a name my interface, and
I have put method two lowercase right.
I have an enum sample normal public enum name.
But I have implemented an interface.
Whenever you implemented the interface, you know that what you have to do, you have to provide its
definition.
So here I have provided the definition or implementation.
But first in the enum I have created my constants Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
Saturday, Sunday, semicolon.
Remember.
And for this Is constant.
My interface.
The method.
So now remember that after semicolon, whatever you have it is for each one.
So means you can still go ahead and overwrite in the Monday you can still have two lowercase.
And also you can override it because this is for all right.
But let's say interface is generally used when certain method is generally common for all.
So that's why I have used an example of two lowercase.
So what I'm doing is whenever this method is invoked, whatever the name of the constant dot name.
So let's say if it is a Monday object, the Monday object dot name.
So it would be Monday capital.
And I'm doing dot two lowercase so inbuilt.
So it will change it to Monday small and then it will return.
So here if you see that this method is very generic and it is common for all.
So instead of putting it like an abstract and then everybody do the same thing so we can just put it
into an interface.
Right.
And in the interface then whatever we just implemented and it would be common for all just one example
like how we can use an interface with the enum.
Generally very rarely it gonna used right.
But still it's better to know that how to use an interface with an enum.
So now here if you see that enum sample dot Monday.
So you got a Monday or this enum sample variable and I'm printing dot two lowercase.
So this is the only one.
So it will call this one common for all.
So this means enum sample which was Monday dot name.
So it will be capital.
And then it will uh calling two layer.
So it will change it to small and then return.
And it is printing a small Monday.
Got it.
So with this one at least you are now know that it can have an abstract method, right?
And all constants should implement that abstract method.
It can have variable constructor and methods I told you like whenever you create a additional parameter
or additional fields to the constant, you have to define a constructor.
And all right variables.
You also have to define from constructor.
You have to initialize those.
And I have also showed you that you can also create a methods.
Also it can implement an interface.
Okay.
Now let's go back to the first question which we asked.
Right.
What is the benefit of enum class when we can create a constant through static and final.
So let's see the advantage I'll try to clarify.
So let's say I have created a class now No.
And inside this let's say v constant I have used static final int.
Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday.
Friday.
Saturday.
Sunday.
And the same way I have given a value like 0123456 some constant.
Now this cannot be changed.
Why?
Because it is static final.
These are constants.
So this is one way.
This is one way and another way.
Today we have seen is enums.
So these are also constant.
And internally 0123456 ordinal has been assigned.
Right.
So these are also constant.
And internally they are static final only.
So this is another way second way.
Now we know.
Do we need to know that why enum is required and why they are better than this.
Let's see this within this example.
So now I have created this first method.
for the class for this class.
Right.
So what this method is, is weakened.
Very simple method.
If it is a weakened Saturday or Sunday I have to return true.
Otherwise false.
So.
So these are these constants are integer.
Integer Monday.
Integer.
Tuesday 0123.
So I am getting a parameter int day.
So client will pass me certain integer.
And based upon this integer I will compare it with the constant.
Hey, if v constant dot Saturday equals to the day it is Saturday or Sunday, then return true as false.
Very simple method, right?
So this method is for the class constant.
And this method I have created for enum constant.
So the same method same functionality if it is Saturday or Sunday.
Return true.
Else false.
Only thing is is this method is for enum sample.
This is accepting enum.
This is accepting the day integer.
Now let's see the how the enum is providing an advantage.
So here if you see I am calling first method is weakened and I'm passing integer two.
So two is what Wednesday generally right.
So here it got two.
Now I'm checking weak constant dot Saturday equals to equals to two dot Saturday is weak constant dot
Saturday it is five.
So five equals to equals to two.
No six equals to equals to two.
No.
So it will return false.
So first one is uh it will return false because it is not a weekday weekend.
Then I am returning.
Then I am sending six Okay, so six is what six is Sunday, six is Sunday.
So now you are getting here six.
So Sunday is six equals to equals to the day is again a six.
So it will return true.
Now here if you see is there any control if I pass 100.
So here if you see that I never had a intention to write a code like any, any unidentified value come
all I code is in the perceptive from okay.
From Monday to Sunday I should get either 0123456.
But here, because of day integer, I even can pass 100001.
There is no control so currently it will return false, but there is a chance that it might.
This method might work unexpectedly because you can't have control what value can come.
Now let's check with enum right.
So I am passing first of all enum sample dot Wednesday right.
So I got a Wednesday enum sample is my Wednesday.
I am just comparing that okay.
Is this equals to Saturday or Sunday?
No it will return false.
Similarly I'm passing enum sample dot Sunday.
So it will match it up and it will return true.
So one thing difference I think it is very very much visible to is readability.
So if you read the static final one here you see that two 600 is weekend.
But here if you see the code is self readable, is weakened and you are passing enum sample dot Wednesday
dot Sunday.
I don't have to put like okay this two is for Wednesday.
This six is for Sunday.
No this is provide much more readability to the code.
Second thing is it is like if I want.
You can only pass between this either Monday or Tuesday.
Wednesday because my parameters is accepting enum sample variable.
Right.
And this enum sample can only possible either Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday.
Friday Saturday Sunday.
Out of this, can you send.
No.
Not possible.
If you send something that is weekend and you pass, try to pass 1001.
It will say compilation error.
Hey, I want this kind of variable, not this.
And for this enum sample only this you can define.
So you have much more control over your method how it will behave.
Okay.
So these are the advantage of enum over this static final variables.
You can say that.
So final class is something like if you want certain class that it should not get inherited Then you
should create a class as a final class.
Right.
So final class cannot be inherited.
Final class cannot be inherited.
So here in this example I have created one class test class and created it final.
Now if I try to extend it in some other class.
So I'm creating another class my another class and try to extend this, try to extend this class here
it says that compilation error cannot inherit from the final class.
So this is the final.
You cannot inherit it.
So the purpose of this final class is final keyword is you cannot inherit from this class okay.
So it put a restriction.
Okay guys.
Right.
So do practice it.
And any question any doubt feel free to ping me.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Java Singleton & Immutable Class Explained with Examples | Java Classes - Part4 ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to cover the final.
The classes will be completed hours with this three topic singleton immutable and wrapper.
Right.
So this is the part four.
And after this our classes would be classes.
Topic would be finished.
So let's start with singleton class.
This is first of all very very important okay.
So what is the purpose of the singleton class.
As you know the singleton with the name itself like this class objective is to create one and only one
object.
Right.
So there are many use cases you will come in life like where you want only one object to be created
like DB connection.
So whatever the class you do, you have a DB connection.
You want only one connection to be set up with the DB, right?
This is your DB and this is your application.
You want only one time connection to be set up.
Then after that you can do as many as query you want.
Select Insert update.
Right.
You don't have to create a connection each time.
So we want to create this class as a singleton that no matter how many times it has been called, no
matter from where it is called only and only one object should be created of this class.
So that is the purpose of singleton class.
So it's a very, very important interview questions.
Because it's not very small topic.
It's a very big topic.
And there are different ways of creating a singleton class.
So these are the popular six ways.
Eager lazy synchronized, block double check lock build solution and enum singleton.
So let's go through each because uh, even if, even if with the understand singleton with 1 or 2 pattern,
uh 1 or 2 methods, then definitely it's not completed.
I would say that.
So we have to understand all, uh, clearly.
So let's go with eager initialization.
As the name says, that eager means something in advance.
So let's say that I take an example of the same.
I created one class public class Dbconnection.
Now first thing I notice is the object creation of this.
So I created an object of this eagerly in advance itself.
So I have make it private static.
So what?
Why I made it private this object.
Because I don't want anybody to access it apart from this class.
Right.
I don't want anybody to access it and change it also.
Right.
So private is, uh, that one that it should, it can be accessed only within this class.
And static means static means only.
So this is not related to object.
Now this is related to class right.
So this object con object is now belongs to a class, not belongs to an object.
So no matter how many hundred objects you will create, this con object will belongs to a class now,
right?
So that's what static means, right?
Something belongs to a class, not belongs to a particular object.
So one thing I have done is here to create a singleton classes.
I have created the object right and made it private static.
Second thing what I've done is I made the constructor private so that nobody is allowed to create a
new object through new keyword new db connection outside of this class, right?
So since it is constructor is private after this class from anywhere, right?
Apart from this class, nobody is allowed to do new DB connection or you can't create a new object.
Okay.
Third, I created a public method now so that others if they wanted an object of this class.
They can call this method and I will just return this object which I have created.
And I have created a static so that they can call with the class name itself.
So this method belongs to a class also.
So whichever want the object of this call this method like this Dbconnection dot get instance I will
always return this only one object I have created and I will always return this right.
Very simple.
So this is a singleton class and this is called as eager initialization because we have as soon as when
you start the application you know that the all the static variables right are preloaded into the memory.
Right.
So that's why it's called eager initialization.
Even though somebody is not using this method, they they haven't called it, but still object has been
created and stored in memory.
So that's what called eager initialization.
And that's what a disadvantage.
Also even though I am not using this something is already created in the memory.
Okay, so to overcome this problem, here we come with the lazy initialization.
In the lazy initialization, if you see that instead of creating an object here new Dbconnection, we
are not initializing now at this part, but the it is still a private static constructor is still a
private here.
Now in this method get instance before creating an object, we are first checking that hey is connection
object is already created or not, it is already a new object has been assigned to it or not.
If it is null so initialize.
Initially it would be null.
So let's say thread one is coming.
So thread one say object is null.
Yes it will go and create a new object and reference has been assigned to it.
So now it will store a reference to a memory object.
Now thread two comes.
It will say that object is null.
A connection object is null.
No memory is already allocated, so it will not create new.
It will return the object itself.
But the disadvantage of this is like what if this is null and two threads comes in parallel.
This is null and two threads comes in parallel.
A connection object equals to equals to null.
Both will find null at the same time.
They will check it's null and two objects will get created.
So that's the disadvantage of lazy initialization.
So to overcome this problem there is a next called synchronized method.
So what it has synchronized has done is it make this method as self as synchronized here.
If you see that I have put a synchronized.
So this synchronized keyword does two things.
It first lock put a lock and also do unlock.
Now this whole method I have put a synchronized.
Now let's say two thread are calling this get instance.
And this is also calling get instance.
Now only one thread will be allowed to go inside this block right.
This method is this complete method itself is synchronized.
Only one thread will go.
So thread one will see hey it is null so it will create a new object of it.
So currently it is null.
Now it will create a new object.
Now after this thread two will go inside this method.
But now object is already created.
So if it is equals to equals to null no it will return it.
So only disadvantage of this is that this we are putting a synchronized at a method level.
So this is becoming a very slow why.
Let's say there are so many places we are calling get instance.
We are we are calling get instance at so many places.
Let's say place one, place two, place three.
Let's say at 100 of places we are calling Getinstance method, not parallel sequential itself.
Just understand that.
So I am calling Getinstance method.
What it will do is put a lock and then unlock.
Then it place two.
Now object is already created.
This object is already been created.
Now place two.
Even though object is already created, I can simply get object equals to equals to null.
Now I can return it, but still.
Since synchronize is present over here, it will again put lock again unlock it.
So now you see that every time this method has been called thousand times lock and unlock would be happen.
So this is very very slow synchronize method.
And that's why we mostly not use it.
Okay.
So to overcome this a double check locking system comes.
Double checked locking system comes.
So in the double check locking system.
So one thing is same.
We have a private static object.
Forget about this one volatile, but remember that I will tell you why this is used, but for now,
just assume that this is not there.
But this is very, very important.
So here second, the same thing.
We are making the constructor private so that we don't want anybody to create a new object outside of
this class.
Third part here is here.
If you see that I have removed the synchronized over the method right now how we are handling this.
So this is check one and this is check two.
So that's why it is known as double checked locking.
So first I am checking here is object is null.
Yes.
By default it would be null.
Yes.
So thread one is coming.
Object is null.
Yes.
Now it will put a lock.
Now it will lock here.
And then go inside and then check one more time.
Hey, it is still a null only, right?
Yes, it is still a null.
It will create an object now it will create an object of it.
Now when thread two comes, it will check.
Hey, connection object equals to equals to none.
No object is already created.
It will return it.
So it will solve the problem of concurrency.
Which will happen is like let's say now this is null, this is null.
And two threads comes at the same time t1 and t2.
So both will find it is null.
Yes.
They will come inside it.
Now because of this synchronize, only one of them will go and one of them will acquire the lock and
go ahead.
So let's say T1 goes ahead.
Now T1 is checking again.
Hey is it is still a null only right?
Yes, it is still a null.
And it will go and create an object.
So it will create an object.
Now after it released the lock.
Now thread two will come here and it will now again a double check.
Hey, it is still null, right?
No, it is not null.
Now object has been created so it will not create new object, it will simply return it.
So that's why it is known as double check locking.
We are checking two times okay.
But there is the disadvantage of this is there is one memory issue.
Okay.
Just understand this one.
Like we have different cores.
So I have already covered this, uh, double check locking system memory issue in the system.
Low level design video.
The bug in double check locking, right.
But I will also cover it here.
Also like to explain why it is an issue when I will explain you volatile in depth.
Because this is an important keyword.
But I will just give you a heads up like what was the actual issue?
There are two issues, but I'll tell you what are the.
At least we will understand what is the issue here.
So understand this.
Each in the CPU there are multiple cores.
Each core has their cash.
Which is generally known as L1 cash.
And then they have access to memory.
Common memory.
Now let's say thread one and thread two is coming parallelly.
Both thread one and thread two is coming parallelly.
So here thread one or let's say even if it is not parallelly, just never.
Let's say first thread one comes here.
So thread one comes here.
It gets a lock.
It created an object.
So thread one is computation is happening in the core one.
So let's say it.
So here correctly connection object value is.
But earlier it was null.
So it is present in null.
Now thread one is going inside and it created a new object.
So now let's say the computation let's say which is happening at core one.
It is for temporary.
It is storing the data here here.
So let's say now con object has a new reference to a memory.
So but it is still in cache.
And you know that, uh, for the performance purpose, all the cores stores the data into the L1 cache,
and periodically they will sync up it to the memory.
Now, let's say that whatever the memory, uh, we have assignment we have done to this object, whatever
the reference of the memory assignment happened, it is still happening in the L1 cache.
It is still present into the L1 cache.
The memory has not been updated yet.
And also understand that the sync up between these two caches not yet happened till now.
Now let's say that thread two is coming now.
Now thread two is coming now.
Thread two says that a connection object equals to equals to null.
So now let's say thread two computation is happening in the core two.
Okay.
Now it will check its cache.
Hey It is connection object is null or it has certain object already reference to it.
So cache two will say that hey, I had I have no knowledge about the conn object because the sync up
doesn't happen.
So it will go and check the memory in memory.
It will find it is null.
So it will return null.
So it says it is null.
It will go inside.
It will take a lock.
It will check again.
It is null.
It is.
Yes.
It is still null.
Still.
Let's say sync up doesn't happen and it hasn't updated the memory.
Also it will go ahead and check.
Hey, it is still null.
Yes, null.
So it will create a new object and put it here.
So now you see that because of this caching the two object has been created.
So this is just one of the memory issue.
There is another memory issue called reordering.
So both this issue has been resolved by volatile.
That's why volatile is used.
So volatile has one purpose.
So we will see this volatile used in detail maybe in the next video.
Uh, but volatile purpose is that if you have created any object volatile, any read and write happening
to this is always happen from memory, not from the cache.
Right.
So now let's say in the first thread one, when it is writing this connection object equals to new database
connection, it will not store it into the cache.
It will directly update the memory.
Now when thread two comes and it want to see hey connection object equals to equals to null connection
object is volatile.
It won't even check the cache.
It will just check from the memory.
So that's why volatile is used right.
So because to overcome the memory issue I hope you got it right.
So this is very important to use with the double check locking and in the interview it do us right.
Generally, most of the candidates solve double locking without this and in production generally this
is now how not it is used.
It is used with volatile keyword.
Now still this double check locking is slow because we are using volatile which means it is not using
cache.
So definitely it's a little bit slow.
And there is also a synchronized keyword we are using.
So this is also putting lock and lock.
So this is little bit slow.
To overcome this there is one more solution called build solution.
So here if you see that we are not using volatile we are not using synchronize nothing.
It is making use of this eager initialization.
Right.
What does the disadvantage of eager initialization is.
Hey even this class is not even used.
Object is created, right?
Eagerly we have initialized now.
So what this bill has done is resolve that only it the initialization part.
Private static one.
Right.
It just put it inside a nested class.
A static nested class.
Private static nested class.
Why?
Because this nested class do not get loaded at the time of application when it you start the application.
All the nested class do not get loaded into the memory only when they are referred.
When they are used, then only it will loaded.
That's the property, one of the property of the nested classes.
So we have make it private so that this nested class cannot be accessed outside of this class.
Okay.
And second thing is we have put this our private static right inside this.
Okay.
So now here is now you see that we have made the constructor private.
So that object of the main class cannot be done from the outside of this class.
Second is we have created a nested static, this class helper class which is creating this object.
Right.
And it is again a private static so that it can be accessed only within this class.
Right.
Similar to the eager initialization, we were doing right private static and creating.
But instead this we are now creating in a nested.
And the third is whenever it is being used, we are returning it same as eager one.
But only difference is initializing this object inside a static, private static nested class so that
whenever it is used then only it will be loaded.
Nested class will be loaded into memory.
Okay, so that's how Buildpack solves the solution.
And it is very fast.
And this is I think you know, you can tell this is also a popular one.
Then there is another called enum like through you know that in enum.
By default all constructors are private.
I have also showed you before, right?
So all constructors are private and so enum by default only one it's object is created and in the.
So as per JVM, each JVM only one snapshot of enum is present.
So it's by default enums are singleton only right.
So we are creating a class constructor private and all.
So here if you see that in enum everything is happen automatically.
So enum constructors are always by default private only.
So we don't have to write this also.
Second the object of this one right?
It's enum.
Take care that only one instance of exist per JVM.
One instance only exists per JVM, right?
So that's what singleton is, right?
One object per JVM.
Okay, so if you see that enum solve it within two lines itself where we are writing so many method.
Okay.
So that's also you can achieve an through an enum also.
So this is all about singleton.
Now let's see what is immutable classes.
So when I told about immutable one thing should come to your mind that in the variable I told you that
strings are immutable, their value cannot be changed.
And we have also studied about string pool and all.
So similarly immutable class is something which state cannot be changed right.
So I have created, uh, let's say one object of this class.
Now this object state cannot be changed, right?
Now we will see how we can do that.
So first thing is declare the class as final.
So I'm creating an object class here.
So I have created an class as a final because I don't want any subclass to be created and change the
value so no subclass is allowed.
Okay, all class members should be private.
So I have you seen that I have created a private and final means nobody can access these variables outside
of this class, right?
And once the value has been assigned to it, they can't be changed.
That's what final say, right?
Third is the class members are initialized only once using constructor.
So whenever you create an object of it that time, you pass what value you wanted to assign to the variables
that time you can allow.
After that, the value should not be changed.
There should be not be any setter method.
So now here, if you see that I have only created getter method, there is no set setter method to set
the values out of it.
Only one time setting is happen when you create an object and that is happened through constructor.
It should during getter method it should return the copy of the member variable.
This is very important.
Okay, so I see I have taken an example of normal string and the list.
This is very important.
Understand this one okay.
Now see with this an example.
Okay so I am creating an object of this immutable class.
And I'm passing the variables which I wanted to set.
So in the name I am passing a string like my name.
And in the list of object I am passing my list pet name list I have put sj pj.
Okay, so this is the pet name list I have sent and it is has been initialized.
Now let's say if I can I change the name, let's say from my name to can I change it to a no.
Let's say even if you do like okay object obj dot get name, you will get the name.
Will you be allowed to change it?
There is no setter method.
How you will change it?
You can't even access the name directly because it is private.
You can't change it.
But can you change the pet name list?
Yes.
So now let's say in the getter.
If you are just returning this directly, if you are returning directly the pet name list.
Now see understand this.
That's why I have taken the list to make you also tell that.
So now here pet name list pet name list you have make it final.
So this is my final.
And while creating a constructor you have assigned it to one of the values.
So there is already a memory created which has SJ okay.
So this is like has as J and this is also a memory having a reference of PJ.
Okay, so this is how it is currently.
Now here, if you see that this final means it is referring to this memory, this block of memory.
So if you from the getter method, if you are returning pet name list means you are returning this memory
area.
You are still allowed to add more values or delete values out of it.
So what final say here in the collection is that you should always point to the same list.
You should always point to the same list.
Let's say I'm calling it a list one.
You will always point to the same list.
You can't change this and point to the another list.
List two.
No, you will always point to the same memory.
List one, let's say.
But you are allowed to change internally.
The add values.
Delete values, update values.
This can be changed.
Okay.
So this can be changed.
So ultimately inside this it's a list of object right.
So you have created an object where you have let's say s and it will have a reference.
So for this one you are storing an object here.
Object reference here okay.
So what I'm saying is the final says that you can just point to one list.
You can't change it to another list, but within a one list, if you have multiple objects right you
can add it, remove it, delete it.
So that's why I say that during getter method, always make sure that you return the copy right.
So that's why here when I'm returning a get name list, I am returning a copy of it.
I created a new list and then return the and copy it and then send it.
So now let's say I'm doing object dot get name list.
So now I'm getting a copy.
A new list has been created.
Now it has copied the variables from this name list.
So it has sj and pj sj pj okay.
Now um what I'm trying to do is now adding a hallow so it will add.
Hello here.
Okay now I'm doing System.out.println object dot get pet name list.
So I'm doing get again.
So I'm getting again and it will create a new and again copy this thing.
So it will create a new again copy SJ PJ okay so now here if you see that I will always get this value
only because I am not changing the original one.
This hello, which I added, I added in a copy one and who is storing its reference?
Nobody.
So as soon as nobody is using it, it will be collected by the garbage collector, it will be removed.
Okay, so that's why we are saying that always return a copy of the member variable so that these values
should not be changed at all.
Okay, understood.
This one.
Immutable.
Once you have initialized the variables, it states.
Now the class state should not be changed, right?
So few things has to be taken care as a while.
So it should be final.
It should be private.
Uh right.
And this getter methods only, it should have an during getter method.
Always take care of this when you're returning a collection.
Because sometime we got confused that we have created a collection.
Final means we can't even change this.
Also, now we are allowed to.
Only thing is, you are just pointing to one collection.
But inside this collection you can still add more and delete it.
Now let's see the wrapper class and wrapper class I have already covered.
Uh, in depth in.
videos.
Number six.
Java variable, part two.
So there I have told you when we were covering the primitive.
Right.
There are eight primitive types right int long.
And for each primitive type a wrapper class has been initiated like integer long like this.
Right.
So I've also explained Autoboxing and unboxing there also.
So if you go here in our Java so the six video Java variable part two reference non primitive data types
in depth.
So there I have covered the wrapper classes okay.
So please do check out that one there.
The wrapper classes we have already covered I think you might have recalled right with the Autoboxing
unboxing and all.
Okay guys.
So that's pretty much from my side.
And classes is done right.
And I will explain the volatile in depth that is very important to understand about the volatile okay
guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java Interface in Depth - Part1 ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome back to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do Java interfaces in depth okay.
So you might have already know little bit about Java interfaces.
But today I'll cover more in depth about this part.
And Java eight and Java nine features I will cover in the second part.
So today is the first part.
I will cover this part and this would be the second part okay.
So now let's go ahead with what is interface okay.
So interface is something which helps two system to interact with each other without one system has
to know the details of other okay.
So short term what if I want to say in a short term that it helps to achieve abstraction?
Okay.
Now let's understand the definition.
What is like you have system one.
And you have system two.
So now let's say system two has given an interface, right?
Like a UI.
I have given an interface like client interface.
Right.
So system two has given an interface.
Hey it says that hey system one, you don't have to know the details of mine.
I have given the interface to you.
Okay?
Like, I have defined certain method, right?
Uh, something like fly eat.
Okay, so these are the operations.
So you just call them, and I will do all the operations.
You don't have to know all the stuffs which I am doing.
Okay.
So now you understand what is interface?
Interface helps two system to interact with each other.
Like one system doesn't have to know all the stuff about how to make certain operation.
Right.
So those all things are abstracted.
So that's why we say that interface helps to achieve abstraction.
Now system one doesn't know like if it is calling a fly operation, how it actually flies, how system
two make this fly operation works.
Maybe it's just huge code base, but system one doesn't bother, it's abstracted to it.
Okay, so similarly, take an example.
You might already know that when driving a car, when you press on a pedal or brake okay, that's an
interface for you.
So now here system one is your car and another system is maybe you you are interacting with a brake.
Hey apply brake.
Now you don't know how car internally actually brake or slow down the speed.
You don't know that is abstracted to you.
Okay, so this is what actually the interfaces helps to system to interact with each other.
How to define the interface.
Let's see.
So interface has modifier.
So let's say this is the basic example of an interface right.
So we use a keyword interface.
So it has a modifier.
So this is the modifier interface keyword interface name.
Then comma separated list of parent interfaces.
Right.
So it can also have more interfaces like I have shown the example here I will show you and the body.
Okay.
Now let's see little bit in detail.
So first of all the modifier.
So whenever we define an interface it can have a modifier.
So only public and default modifiers are allowed protected and privates are not allowed in the interface.
Okay.
So always remember that our interface will always be public and default.
And here if you see that this is public and if you don't give anything it is default.
This one is default.
Okay.
So it has modifiers.
It has the interface keyword and the interface name okay.
And this is your body.
So interface here we can give a comma separated list of parent interfaces.
How like modifier the interface keyword keyword the interface name.
And then you can use extend keywords if you want to extend from multiple interfaces.
Right.
So let's say bird is one interface.
So this is interface.
Bird is one interface.
Living thing is one interface.
And you are creating a non flying birds non flying bird.
Another interface.
So this is also an interface.
But you are extending them but you are extending them.
Okay.
So how you can extend them using extend keywords and you can add multiple interfaces.
So always remember one thing here.
It's a comma separated list of parent interfaces not class right.
Let's say if there is one class right it you can't do it here.
No only interfaces.
You can extend only interfaces okay.
So this is very basic.
So don't worry about this.
We will go in depth but understand how to define an interface.
So interface definition is very simple.
Like you can have to give a modifier.
It can be public or default.
Then interface keyword you have to use and the name you can give right and the body.
So we will see how the body we have to define okay.
And if you want your interface to extend from other interface also you can use comma separated any number
of interfaces you can use and using a extends keyword.
Okay.
So this is how we define an interface.
Now let's see why we need an interface.
Hey you can ask hey why we need an interface.
So first thing first I have already told you what is interface.
There we see that it helps to achieve abstraction.
So definitely abstraction is the first we need interface.
For using interface we can achieve full abstraction means we can define what class must do but not how
it will do.
Okay, so just read one more time.
It defines what class must do, but does not how it will do.
So here.
If you see this is an interface, right?
I have created an interface modifier interface keyword interface name.
Now here this is the body.
And inside the body I have declared what class must do.
So any class which is going to implement this interface right.
They will implement this method like how they want to implement the how part will be done by the classes
interfaces.
What class must do so fly method it just give the signature.
This is just a signature okay.
No implementation is here okay.
So using interface we can achieve full abstraction.
So it's like 100% abstraction.
All the methods you can define is by default abstracted like you don't have to implement here, right?
So whichever class is going to implement it, they have to provide the implementation.
Okay.
So it's a way to achieve an abstraction.
And I have already told you and with an example of system one and system two that what does abstraction
means.
Actually like one system doesn't know the complete detail of system two, but system two has provided
an interface through which system one can interact.
That system two is your car, system one is you then brake apply brake, apply.
Brake is the method which has been exposed.
So when you use this system, one means you use this internally.
This is the car.
Is the car is your kind of a class which implements this apply brake and it do lot of things.
So this thing is abstracted to you.
Okay.
So why we need interface first is abstraction.
Second is polymorphism.
Now let's understand this one how it helps us to achieve a polymorphism.
So first thing you know to see that interface can be used as a data type.
Okay.
So now here if you see that I have created one interface bird.
So modifier interface keyword and the interface name and I have created one method okay.
So here I have created one method fly.
But notice that I have only given the signature or.
You can say that I have defined it not implemented it okay.
So I have created two class out of it.
One is Eagle.
So I have created a class which implements this bird, and I have created another class called hen because
it's a bird, right.
So I have created another class called hen.
It implements this and any class which implements the interface, it has to provide the implementation
for the method for the signature.
So Eagle has to provide the signature for the implementation of the fly method.
Similarly, Hen also has to provide the implementation of the fly method.
Okay, so one thing I told you that interface can be used as a data type.
So now here if you see that interface bird.
Now what I am doing is I am creating a bird reference variable.
Right.
It's a data type now and I am storing what object eagle object.
So child class the class which implemented the interface right.
You can create an object of this and store it over here, right?
It can hold the reference.
We cannot create an object of this.
We cannot create an object of the interface, remember?
Right.
We cannot create an object of the interface.
We can only create an object of a concrete class.
So here the class is Eagle which implemented this bird interface.
Similarly, we can create an object of this hen because this is also a concrete class and it implemented
the bird.
So we can create an object of eagle.
We can create an object of hen.
And since interface can be treated as a data type, we can it can hold the reference of them.
So see I have created an eagle object and I have stored into the bird interface reference variable.
Similarly, I created a Han object and where I have stored it into the bird, the interface reference
variable.
Now I am calling bird object one dot fly.
So on the runtime it will decide.
Hey, this bird object one contains object of which because there can be so many classes here, right?
There can be so many classes which is implementing this interface, right?
So when I call the dot fly method now it will see that, hey it will do one lookup.
It will do one lookup and check.
Hey this object contains an object of this reference.
This reference variable contain an object of which class.
So it will say that hey Eagle.
So it is an eagle.
So it will call this fly method.
So bird object two Dot fly, so it will do.
First look up that.
Hey bird!
Object two.
Reference variable contains an object of which class?
It's a hen, so dot fly.
It will convert.
It will call this one.
So now here, if you see that we are dynamically calling the fly method, sometimes this or sometimes
this based upon the objects.
Right.
So on runtime it is deciding which fly method we have to invoke.
Right.
So it helps to achieve polymorphism also.
Okay.
And I have already told you that we cannot create an object of an interface, but it can hold the reference
of the classes which implements it, so it can hold the reference of a classes eagle and hen which implements
it, and at runtime it decide which method need to be invoked.
Right.
So when I'm calling dot fly it will check.
Okay.
Object one controls and holds an object of eagle.
So it calls this fly.
Okay.
So first why we need abstraction.
Second is polymorphism.
And third is multiple inheritance right.
Very important because you know that in Java multiple inheritance is possible only through interface
only.
That is you can say that one of the advantage of interfaces.
You can apply multiple inheritance only through interface.
How?
So there is one problem called diamond problem.
Let's understand this problem first okay.
Now assume that I am creating a class.
So just forget about interface for a minute.
Let's assume that multiple inheritance is supported in the class also.
So now let's say I have created this class Water animal.
I have created another class.
Land animal.
And both have the same method.
Can breathe.
Okay, now I am doing a multiple inheritance.
The same class crocodile.
So I am creating a crocodile.
It extending from this water animal and land animal.
So here if you see currently today a class cannot extend from two other classes, right?
Multiple inheritance is not possible to classes.
So that's why it is showing error.
But let's say for a minute that let's say it is possible I am able to create a class crocodile and able
to extend from water animal and land animal.
Okay, now let's see what will happen if you do this.
I am creating an object of a crocodile.
Right?
So I can create an object of this crocodile.
Right?
And when I'm doing object crocodile, object dot can breathe.
Now, what will happen?
How?
Compiler will know that whether I have to call the water animal can breathe or land animal can breathe.
So compiler doesn't know.
So to solve this what it says that hey, this is not allowed.
So that's why multiple inheritance with classes is not allowed.
But with interfaces it is allowed.
How?
Now let's see the same example.
Now instead of class I have switched with ten interface.
So land animal.
Right now it has a breathe.
Can breathe.
So I have had a can breathe.
But you know that interface can only have a signature not implementation.
So I have provided only the signature.
Similarly I have another interface water animal.
It has also can breathe.
Same.
Now I have a class crocodile and it implements from land animal.
Water animal.
Okay, two.
Now you know that any class which implements the interface has to provide the implementation for this
method.
Okay.
So what it will do is it will provide an implementation for this method can breathe return true.
So what actually really happen is it actually override it.
It actually override it okay.
So now compiler will not face any issue.
Then when it create an object crocodile object and it say that crocodile object can breathe, it will
call this method.
Now it don't have any confusion whether I have to call the can breathe of land animal or water animal.
No confusion because crocodile has overrided this right.
So this one will be called.
So now here, if you see that what we have done is we have implemented a multiple inheritance through
interfaces.
This was not possible through classes right.
Why?
Because of diamond problem.
This was the diamond problem.
Why this was an issue.
But now you know that this will not cause an issue with an interfaces.
So with interfaces.
See a crocodile class can implement multiple interfaces, right?
A crocodile class can implement multiple interfaces.
Okay.
So this is one of the advantage of interfaces that multiple inheritance can be achieved okay.
So these are the three big advantages okay.
So now you till now you know what is interface.
How to define it.
Why we need an interface.
Now see, one thing is here.
Methods.
Okay.
Methods in an interface.
So now I have already told you that interface.
You can only give a signature.
You can only give a signature, not implementation.
Okay.
But there are little bit, uh, couple of minor things.
More which you have to know.
One thing all methods are implicit public only.
So here I have created an interface, the modifier, which can only be public or default, the interface
keyword, the interface name, and the body inside the body you give the methods only signature okay.
So now here if you see that I have given one is like void fly, no, no access modifier and one I have
given public void has been right.
Another method, but with public.
But here, if you see that both are same, all methods are implicit public only.
Even though you don't define anything internally, it is public only.
So both are same like both are same in axis is specified.
This is also public.
This is also public even though whether you will write it or not write it.
Okay.
Method cannot be declared as final.
You can't declare it as a final.
Why?
I think you should be able to answer this.
Can you write down in the comment why a method cannot be declared as a final in interface?
If you have learned the previous videos properly, like method or method classes where I have shown
I have told you what is the purpose of.
Just see that.
What is the purpose of the final right and in interface?
Why it cannot be applied.
I want an answer from you.
It is very very simple.
So please comment down why a method cannot be declared as a final okay.
Okay.
Or I would say that you first pause here, write down the comment and then let me tell you the answer
and then we can match.
So you know that final means whenever you create a method final, you internally tells that, hey,
it cannot be overrided in the child classes, right?
But for interface, does it make sense?
No, it doesn't make sense because we are only giving the signature.
Implementation has to be done by the child classes.
So final doesn't make sense over here okay so these are the methods.
Few things two things which you have to know now similarly fields in the interfaces.
Now let's see this.
So here I have creating an interface.
Now the field the member variables the variables which I'm creating right fields are public, static
and final implicitly.
And you know that public static final static final is used to create a constant, right?
I have already told you this in the our variable classes that static and final are used together to
make a variable constant, right.
So fields in the interface are by default.
Public static and final.
So here this is one interface where I have created a variable maximum height in feet.
Bird max height in feet is let's say 2000.
And I have created another interface where I have written public static final maximum I ten feet 2000.
So both are equal.
So here if you see that I haven't written public static final.
So this is implicitly added.
So whether you write it or not write it it is considered as constant.
Once you define it you cannot change it.
Okay.
So this is your constant.
So all the variables which you define in interface.
First thing is they are public right.
You can't make them protected or private.
They are public.
Second thing is they are constant.
They are constant means they are static and final also.
And you cannot make them private or protected because implicitly they are public.
Okay.
So you understand about the fields which can be created.
Okay.
So now you know that methods and fields.
Now let's say interface implementation.
So now you know that we you are able to create an interface.
Till now you we have created an interface.
Public interface.
But I am creating one method signature fly.
Now we have to implement it right.
So you know that through class we can implement this.
So now I have created a class eagle which implements the bird interface.
So implement is the keyword which is used by class to implement a particular interface.
Right.
And whenever a class implements an interface it has to provide the definition of this method.
So here if you see that I have to give the definition.
Okay.
So this is how we know the implementation.
But there are few things now here.
So four things we have to see.
First, overriding method cannot have more restricted access specifier.
What does it mean.
So here if you see that.
In interface I have public void fly.
And you know that by default method is public only okay.
But in the class Eagle when you implemented the bird you are trying to restrict means lower down the
access specifier.
You are trying to create a protected.
So this is wrong.
This will not work right.
So it was public.
You have to make it public only.
You can't restrict its access specifier because in interface it's method is public.
It has to be public.
Okay.
First thing is clear.
Overriding method cannot have more restrictive access identifier specifier.
Concrete class must override all the methods declared in the interface.
I think you should already be known that.
What is concrete class in the class?
Uh.
Where the.
I think before this in the class tutorial, I have told that what is concrete class.
So the concrete class.
So here in this case this is a concrete class.
Eagle is a concrete class.
So the concrete class should provide all the implementation to the abstract method.
So this is kind of an abstract method where we have only the signature.
It has to provide the implementation.
So if there are ten abstract method let's say fly each walk.
So it has to provide the implementation for each fly.
It has to provide the implementation for it.
It has to provide the implementation.
Right.
So concrete class must override all the methods declared in the interface.
But it is also possible that abstract class can also implement the interface.
So here.
Now see that I have an abstract class which implemented the interface.
And you know that abstract class.
Also we can create an abstract methods.
So in abstract class are not forced to override all the method right.
So now let's see this example I have a bird interface and I have two method can fly number of larks.
So by default these are abstract methods.
So these are abstract methods right.
Where I have defined only the signature can fly the number of larks.
Then I have created an abstract class.
Abstract class Eagle Implements bird.
Okay, so now since this is an abstract class, it is not forced to provide an implementation for this,
but it can.
So here if you see that for can fly I have provided the implementation.
I have provided the implementation for can fly, but I haven't provided the implementation for the number
of larks.
Right.
Why?
Because it is an abstract class.
It can provide the it can have the concrete methods.
It can also have an abstract methods also.
Right.
So I am not forced to provide all the abstract method implementation but I can.
So I provided the implementation for the can fly, but I haven't provided the implementation for the
number of flags and I can add more abstract methods.
But whenever you will create a concrete class.
So now I have created a concrete class, White Eagle, which is a child of eagle.
So here I have a bird.
Then I have a eagle.
Okay, this is interface.
This is abstract class.
Now I have created White Eagle.
Okay.
So this is now your concrete class.
So one thing we know, that concrete class should have to provide the implementation of all the abstract
method in its parent.
So it has to see okay.
Is there any abstract method which I need to provide an implementation.
It says that yes break length.
So it will provide the implementation for it.
Then it will check its parent.
Okay.
Is there any abstract method for which I have to provide an implementation.
It will see that okay one is left number of leg is left.
Yes.
You have to provide an implementation.
Okay.
So in the concrete class, any method which is any abstract method which is left have we have to provide
an implementation.
Okay.
So this part is clear right.
And abstract class are not forced to override all the method.
But in the concrete class all abstract method implementation has to be there.
A class can implement from multiple interfaces, right?
So we have already seen in the multiple uh there I have shown you a class can implement from multiple
interfaces.
That is the benefit multiple inheritance.
That is the benefit it provides.
So interface implementation is clear right.
This part interface implementation.
Okay.
So now now let's see this part.
This is very, uh, you can say that.
Never used it in the last eight years.
Nested interfaces.
But it's good to know it.
Okay.
So an interface can be declared within another interface.
And interface can be declared within a class also.
So those interfaces are known as nested interfaces.
Okay.
Why it is used why nested interface is used.
Generally it is used to group logical related interfaces.
So whenever you thought whenever you think that okay I have to group an interface okay.
Then you can go for the nested one.
So there are certain rules of it.
I'll tell you what a nested interface declared within an interface must be public.
I'll show you.
So okay let's first go with this.
So let's first check like I am creating a interface within a interface.
So this is the first we are checking interface within an interface.
So I am creating one outer interface.
So this bird is my outer interface.
So I am creating a bird interface public interface bird.
And it has this abstract method.
So this is your abstract method for this outer one.
Now I am creating an inner interface Non-nested interface.
So the outer interface is bird.
I have grouped the inner nested interface.
And you know that the rule says that a nested interface declared within an interface must be public,
so it can only be public.
It cannot be protected, it cannot be private, it cannot be default.
It can be only public.
Right.
Because you know that in because you know that in interface everything is public.
All the methods, all the variables.
Right.
So it force everything to be in the public only.
Okay.
So here I have created a nested interface.
And nested interface can have its own abstract method.
It can have its own abstract method okay.
Now how to use it.
Now let's see there are different ways to use it.
I'll tell you all different ways.
Let's say I am creating a class which implements the only the outer.
So it implements only the outer interface.
The bird.
This one is outer interface.
It is possible that.
Right.
I only want to access the is the outer interface.
So when you are implementing the outer interface, you only have to provide the implementation of the
method which is there in the outer one.
So see I have provided the implementation only for the can fly which is the outer interface.
It is declared.
There is another chance that I am creating a class which implements one to implement the inner interface.
So how you access the inner one.
So you access the inner one by from the parent bird dot non flying bird.
So using bird dot non flying bird right.
This is how you access it.
And when you are implementing the inner nested interface you have to provide only its implementation
right.
So it has can run as an abstract method.
So I have provided the definition only for the can run right.
And in the main method How you will invoke it.
Let's say you can create an object of the concrete class.
So I am creating an object of New Eagle.
And I told you that, uh, the interface can hold the reference to this object.
So here the interface is bird dot non flying bird.
So I am creating a reference bird dot non flying bird.
Like this I am creating a reference variable of this interface type.
And then I'm calling can run.
So first it will check one lookup.
Hey what object it is.
It's a eagle.
And then call can run.
Okay.
So this is how you can access the nested interface.
And it is possible that one more use case is I am creating a class eagle and implement both outer and
inner.
So you can do that implements outer and then inner or inner or outer.
There is no sequencing kind of this right.
So I have done the outer one and then the inner one.
And then you have to implement both outer methods.
You have to provide the implement and the inner method.
You also provide the implementation.
Okay.
So one thing you got it that when you implement outer interface inner interface implementation is not
required and vice versa.
So I showed you that when you implement the outer interface only outer interface method, you have to
implement inner nested interface implementation is not required right.
Similarly vice versa.
We have seen this.
Okay.
Let me show you an example of the class uh interface within a class.
So now this is interface.
Within a class example.
So I have created a class bird and now I am creating an interface inside this non flying bird.
So it's a nested interface which is inside a class.
And I wanted to showcase this is that I have created it protected okay.
So when whenever you are creating an interface within a class, right, nested interface which is within
a class, you can make it even private.
Also you can make it protected.
Also you can make it public also.
Right.
No restriction.
Right.
Because you know that a class can have a member variable or members which can be private public protected.
All right.
So the similarly applies to the interface.
So interface is kind of a member to it.
So you can it can be protected.
It can be private.
It can be public.
Right.
So here in the interface it has a method can run.
Right.
So no definition.
Uh no uh proper implementation, only the signature.
And similarly I am creating a class which implements one.
To implement this interface, it implement dot the interface name and it provides this implementation.
Simple.
Exactly same.
But only thing is few things we have to consider while creating a nested interface.
So see, we never.
To be honest I will not lie.
Nested interface I haven't used till now, right?
But it's good that sometime it get asked in the interview.
Like Joe things are which are not very popular.
Sometime it is important for from the interview perspective, right?
So it's good to have at least a good understanding of it.
Practice once.
Yeah.
Okay.
So nested interface is also done.
Now let's see the difference between interface and abstract class.
Okay.
So I have creation created the ten differences there might be.
Some are very, very you can say that easy.
Or you can say that okay, this is very common.
So here if you see that this is the abstract and this is the interface.
So the keyword used here is abstract.
So whenever you create an abstract class you know that you have to use an abstract abstract class.
And then you have to create a name.
Right.
So abstract keyword is used to create an abstract class and interface.
We have already seen you have to use an interface keyword okay.
Second a child classes need to use keyword extends.
And here we need to use implements.
So any class which has to use this let's say B extends A.
And here any class which has to implement this it has to use implements keyword A right.
So implements and extends the difference.
An abstract class can have both abstract and non abstract methods.
So I think you already know that we have already covered the abstract class in detail.
So abstract class can have a both abstract methods, which means only signature is present and also
non abstract method means it also has method which has proper implementation okay.
But in interface it can have only abstract method, right?
Only abstract method means only methods with signature.
No implementation.
But remember this from Java eight.
This is not true.
Java eight and Java nine.
We have certain features through which we can also provide an implementation.
Okay, so I'll tell you in depth about Java eight features and Java nine features in the next part.
Right.
But remember that before Java eight interface can only have abstract methods, but from Java eight it
can also have default static private methods, which I will tell you.
Private comes in Java nine okay.
It can extend from another class and multiple interfaces.
So you know that because it's an abstract class right.
It cannot extend from more than one class.
So it can only.
So you have a class so it can extend from another class or multiple interfaces.
Interface one.
Interface two.
But it cannot extend from another class.
That is not possible.
Right.
And in the interface it can extend only from other interfaces.
So I have already told you in the interfaces it can only extends from interface one.
Interface two.
Interface three only multiple interfaces.
In the abstract class variable can be static, non-static, final, non-final.
But I have told you that interface it is constant means it is public static final.
Always.
Okay, let's see the sixth difference.
Variables and methods can be private protected public default right.
So in a class you can create any variable private public protected right.
This is allowed.
But in interface you know that by default everything is in public right.
So variables and methods all by default public right.
We can have only public methods.
But in Java nine we can add private method.
Also we will cover it later.
But before Java nine all variables and methods are by default public only.
Let's see one more difference.
Multiple inheritance is not supported.
I told you that multiple inheritance is not possible through the class Y diamond issue and multiple
inheritance supported with this in Java, we have already seen with an example.
It can provide the implementation.
The abstract class provide an implementation of the interface.
I have shown you the example also that it can provide an implementation here.
Abstract method has provided an implementation to the interface, right?
But vice versa is not true.
Interface cannot provide an implementation of an abstract class.
No right.
But abstract class can provide an implementation of the interface.
Abstract class can have constructor interface cannot have constructor.
Right.
So this is one more thing.
And another thing is to declare the method abstract.
In the abstract class we have to use a abstract keyword.
So you have an abstract class.
abstract class A now you want to create any method abstract.
So you have to use the abstract keyword abstract void.
Right.
But in the interface we don't have to use any keyword.
Whatever the method you will do, it is only you have to provide the signature.
So by default it's an abstract only.
Right.
And in the abstract class for this method it can be protected public and default.
So it cannot be private for sure you know it.
Why?
Because if you make it private, how the concrete class will provide an implementation to it.
But it can be protected, it can be public or it can be default you.
If you don't give anything, it would be default which is the package level.
But in interface everything by default is public Okay.
So these are the ten differences right.
But if you I think we have already seen uh abstract class in depth just cover this interface, implement
this once and then will you will see this ten differences will make sense to you.
Okay.
Just go through it once.
So these are very basics like I because we have interface.
We have talked a lot about interfaces till now.
We have already covered 1314 videos.
We have talked a lot about interfaces.
So I think it would be little bit easy to catch, but still it worth to cover some of the details in
depth.
Like what all things are public, what all things are constants and nested and all this part.
So this is the first part.
And this is going to be the very important part is the Java eight features of the interfaces I will
cover in the second part of this video.
Okay guys.
So till then practice the first part, uh this thing with your hand.
Right.
And see you soon.
Bye.

--- Default, Static & Private Method in Interface - Java Interface - Part2 ---

Hey guys welcome to Concept in Coding and this is Shreyansh.
So in the first part of the video of the interface we have already covered this right.
So today I will cover this Java eight features and Java nine features.
So today I will cover this.
So this was covered in the first part.
So today I will cover this plus this two.
Functional interface and lambda expression I will cover totally in one video because this is very very
important right.
So I don't want to mix with other topics.
So I'll cover this important topic in a separate video itself.
So today we will see the Java eight features default method, static method and Java nine interface
features, private methods and private static method.
Okay, so let's go ahead to the default method okay.
So now let's understand this.
What is default method now.
So by this time you already know how to create an interface.
And you know one thing that interface can only have.
Abstract method before Java eight.
Before Java eight interface can only have abstract method.
And all the child classes has to provide abstract method implementation.
This is what we have studied till now.
But Java eight has bring this feature of default method.
I will tell you, is this a feature or this is kind of a you can say it's an ah kind of gap filling
or bug fix.
You can say that not a bug fix, but it's mostly a improvement of a long gap which Java has.
I'll tell you how.
So now let's see first with an example, uh, how to define a default method.
So this is what we have known.
We can easily create an interface public interface bird.
It has one abstract method.
So this is you know that it's a by default abstract method.
Even though I haven't written any abstract method here by default, you know that it's an abstract by
default.
Internally it has an abstract method.
So this is an abstract method.
And all the child classes which are implementing this, which are implementing this bird has to implement
this can fly.
So now I have two child classes here.
One is eagle which implement this bird.
So it has to implement the fly method.
Another is Sparrow.
It is also implementing the bird.
It is also has to implement the can fly method.
Now just understand from this perspective.
If in future you got a request that we have to add a new method here, add new method added in the interface
need to change in all of its implementation.
So now let's say earlier it was only can fly and all the classes which implement this interface has
implemented the can fly.
But now request comes and I have to add this method also get minimum fly height of a bird.
So because this is also an abstract if interface can only have an abstract means all the child classes,
all the classes which have implemented this interface has to be changed and implement this method.
So Eagle also has to implement this.
Sparrow also has to implement this even though the code functionality is same, right?
Even though the code functionality is same, they have to implement this one.
So that is one of you can say that disadvantage of an interface, right?
Or you can say that this is one of the gap.
Right.
So you can know that.
Why the default method has been introduced at the first place to resolve this gap.
So now how default method is solving this issue.
So I have a bird I have an abstract method.
Okay I have an abstract method.
So all the classes which implement this bird has implemented the abstract method.
So fly is an abstract method here right.
So Eagle has also implemented the abstract method.
Sparrow has also implemented the abstract method right provided the implementation of the abstract method.
But now a new requirement comes that hey, we need this need to add this new method.
And this new method is common for most of the classes, right?
So now in the Java eight you can add a method and provide its implementation.
Also, you can provide its implementation.
Also.
All you have to put is a default keyword here, right?
With just a default keyword, you can able to implement the method here.
And you see that we don't have to implement a get minimum fly height over here and over here.
Right.
And even with the Eagle the so here now let's say how to use it.
I am creating an eagle object, this class object which implements the bird.
I am creating an eagle object.
Right.
And when I am creating an eagle object with this eagle object itself, I am able to call this method.
So even though we are not adding it here, it's internally been added and it's able to access it, right.
So that's what default is.
You don't have to default method.
You can provide the implementation in the interface itself and you don't have to implement those into
the classes which implement that interface.
That's what default is.
But now you can say that hey, why in Java eight suddenly they get this requirement.
Why not in Java seven and all before that.
Also why in Java eight only they think that okay default method has to be introduced.
I'll tell you why.
So this is my theory.
So in Java eight they have come up with a feature called stream right.
So now here if you see.
Now here if you see.
Our test object dot stream.
So this stream is a Java eight feature right.
So now here if you see that stream is added into which class, this method is added into which class.
it's an added into interface of collection.
Now, since it's an interface or this feature has been stream method has been added into an interface.
See how much implementation are there for this interface?
See how many how many implementation?
If in Java eight they have to add a new method into this interface.
So they have added stream.
If they have added stream and then semicolon, then you know that in how many classes they have to implement
this in how many classes, they have to provide an implementation for this stream.
You know that.
Why now they have thought that okay, how to solve this now.
So I think that's why they have come up with this.
Put a default.
So now they have put the stream as a default so that they now don't have to provide the implementation
is all of those classes.
Okay.
So I would say that default is why they have suddenly introduced in Java eight because stream was introduced
into the collection interface.
And in the collection interface.
There are so many classes which implement this collection interface.
If you are adding a new stream method here, then you have to add touch all the classes, add stream
implementation just to save this.
And to solve this, they have made default so that only this class is touched and provided default implementation
here and everybody can use it.
It's a common functionality.
Okay.
So that's what I understand with it why the default matter was default method was first introduced to
add the functionality in the existing legacy interface, we need to use a default method, for example,
a stream method in collection.
I showed you how.
Okay so basic you understand default method.
Now let's see couple of problems which can come and what all things you can do with default this thing
in an interface.
Now you know that a class can implement many interfaces, right?
A class can implement many interfaces.
So now let's say I have one interface and I have created a default method with name can breathe, a
bird can breathe I have a method can breathe.
And it's a default I have an implementation.
I have created another interface called Living Thing and it also has the same method can breathe.
This is also default.
Now I am creating one class which implements both.
Now you know that what's gonna happen can which default method will get invoked ultimately, when Eagle
object will be called Eagle object equals to new eagle.
So I have created an eagle object.
And object dot can breathe which one it will invoke.
Right.
So this thing will not work out.
So that's why it's an error over here.
So whenever you have a case like this you have implementing have multiple interfaces.
And they have the default method with the same name.
You have to provide an implementation in that case only okay.
So then it's a mandatory to provide the implementation.
You got it.
Now let's see how to extend an interface.
So you know that you have an interface.
And another interface can also extend it.
extended.
So what?
All things can be done if it has default method.
What all this interface can do.
So there are three ways.
So first way let's see the first way.
Simple.
I have an interface living thing and has one default method can breathe.
Simple.
Very simple with just one default method and interface.
Now you know that another interface can extend from the interface parent interface.
So this is the parent now.
And this bird interface extended from the parent interface.
So first way is bird does nothing.
Means it doesn't touch or do anything.
It keep it default method as it is like it doesn't touch anything.
So by default.
When you have another class Eagle, which implements bird.
Right.
So it just.
You can say that all has the capability.
All has this default method.
So now when I created an eagle object Eagle Eagle object equals to new eagle.
I can easily access this method.
Easily access this method.
So one way is the interface.
The child interface do not touch the parent default method.
So it would be just a cascading.
And the ultimate child class will get all the capabilities of it.
It still can access it.
What is the second way?
The second way is so this is the parent interface.
It has one default method.
It has been extended by the child interface.
Now here what it has done is it make it a default.
So it created one.
Sorry.
It created an abstract.
So with the same name, with the same name, it create an abstract method.
It create an abstract method.
So now what ultimately will happen is this method also become abstracted.
Okay.
So now I have created a.
Eagle class which implements the bird.
So now it has to implement this method.
It has to provide the implementation because this is now abstracted.
Even though can breathe is default into the living thing.
But the interface the child interface has made it abstracted.
So any class which is implementing this bird now has to provide an implementation.
So this is the correct.
So now Eagle has to provide the implementation.
Why.
Because the bird has made the same Method as an abstract method, right?
Can breathe.
Even though it is a default into the parent one.
Right?
So this is the second way where the interface has the capability to create a same method as an abstract.
Then all the child classes also has to provide the implementation.
Okay.
What is the third way.
So this is interesting.
So I have a parent interface.
Parent interface has one default method.
Simple.
Now I am creating one child interface.
Now child interface is overriding this.
So means it is also providing the implementation its own implementation.
So can breathe default.
So it is also providing can be default.
It is now overriding it kind of thing.
So this is overriding.
It is doing so it can add its own implementation.
Plus it can also use the implementation of the parent interface also and add certain more functionality.
So I can use this living thing.
The parent interface name dot super dot its method name default method name can breathe.
So with this it will first call.
This.
So means this will get called and whatever.
Now you can add more functionality, add more functionality.
Or if you want to totally add a new functionality, you can totally add a new functionality.
If you don't want to use it, you don't write it.
But if you want to use this code base, also you can use like this the interface name dot super and
the default method name you can access.
So this code will get executed first.
After that you can add more code.
So this is known as overriding.
So these are the three ways, right?
And through which during interface extend you can play with the default method.
Okay.
So I think default method should get clear right.
So do practice once.
So it's very easy but it's a different use cases.
It's better to know all these different use cases right.
So now let's check with another Java eight feature.
So default was one Java eight feature.
Now let's see.
Another is static method.
So with static method also we can provide the implementation of the method in interface through default.
Also you can provide an implementation of a method through static.
Also you can provide an implementation right.
But there are certain constraint constraint like it cannot be overridden by the classes which implement
the interface.
Right now here I am creating a class which implements the bird.
Now it cannot override.
This can breathe.
It's not possible, right?
It can just use this with the interface name because it's a static right.
You know that whenever the method is static, it can be accessed by the class name.
So here in this interface it can be accessed by an interface name.
So now let's say in the class which implementing this interface bird I cannot override this here or
here but I can use it.
So I am just created one method.
And here now see I am using it bird interface name dot method.
You can use it now okay.
So that is one of the constraint that this static method cannot be overridden by classes which implements
the interface.
In this case Eagle cannot override it, Right.
So that's one of the thing.
Another thing is we can access it using interface name itself.
So here, if you see that I am accessing it through bird dot Cambridge name.
Right.
And it is by default public as far as you know till now, whatever we have done everything is public
in till now Java eight everything is public.
So it is by default public.
So it's kind of public static.
Okay.
So you got the static.
So now here if you see that the example which we have seen for stream right.
So you can ask right.
Hey why can't we make it static.
Why we have created it default.
So I told you that static you can't provide an implementation or you can't, it cannot be overridden
by the classes.
So now if you see this stream right.
Many classes which implement this has overridden it.
So now just see that maybe see they have overridden this and they provide their own implementation.
So default methods are possible to do the override.
But static cannot be overridden.
Right.
So it is possible that maybe in some of the class out of 101 of the class, you have to write your own
functionality.
With static.
It is not possible because you cannot override it, but with default it is possible.
Okay, so static method is clear, right?
In Java eight.
Now let's see the Java nine feature which is private method and private static method.
See static method is there in Java eight.
So but by default everything is public.
So it is public static.
Public static is available in Java eight also.
But private static is available in Java nine.
Okay.
So now let's see what it is.
Very very simple.
Okay.
We can provide the implementation of method.
But as a private access modifier in the interface same.
We can also provide an interface here.
Right.
So here now here if you see that I am creating a I am creating an normal interface bird.
Right.
So this is my.
Abstract method.
Right.
And I told you that void can fly internally.
All methods are public in interface.
So it is equivalent to public.
So public will get added internally.
And also all method in interface also by default abstract.
So it is very equivalent to public abstract void can fly.
Just wanted to showcase that they are equal, right?
So whether you write void can fly or public abstract void can fly.
Both are same.
Okay, so now I have created one interface and I have created one abstract method here.
Now here if you see that I have created one default method.
This is Java eight feature right?
I have created one static method.
This is also Java eight feature.
Now I have created one private method which is Java nine feature and private static which is also Java
nine feature.
Right.
So with all this you can provide an implementation.
Right.
So for only abstract you cannot provide an implementation.
But if you see for default I have provided the implementation static.
I have provided the implementation private.
I have provided the implementation and private static provided the implementation, but only few rules.
You have to identify very simple rules, right?
And I think if you have already check out my previous I think methods where I have covered the private
modifiers, you will know very basic rules.
Now let's check it rule first.
So one thing is you already know that we can provide the implementation of the private and private static,
right?
We can provide it.
But with the as a private modifier.
Now you know one thing that if it is private, means you cannot access this method outside of this interface,
up outside of this interface, you cannot access it means who can access it, then abstract method cannot
access it, then who can access it?
Only default or static can access it, right?
So these are the only methods which can access it which can have implementation.
So private can private method can only be used inside an interface.
Okay.
Why why we need private method.
So one thing is it brings more readability of the code.
For example this is for example if multiple default methods share some code then this can help right?
So now let's say when one more problems comes in Java that you can have default method.
Now let's say you have 2 or 5 default methods.
Let's say you have five default methods.
And they have I think 80% similar code base similar code base.
Right.
So what you will do.
So it would be lot of code duplication.
So now in that case private method can have.
So this 80% code you can take out in a private method now.
Right.
And they they can just simply call this and get this 80% done.
And they can just simply now write their own 20%.
Right.
So now we can do code reusability.
Code readability will increase.
So this is one of the reason why private methods are introduced after because default it becomes a necessity.
Okay.
What else private can be defined as a static non-static.
Yeah it can be defined right.
So once with private if you make it static it become private static right.
Otherwise if you don't make it static it become a normal normal.
So it just you can say that it would be a private private static.
So these are the two flavors right.
You can understand this line with there are two flavors normal private or private static.
And I, I think we have already done this in a method.
You know that from static method you can call only static data.
You can only call static members, either variable or method.
Only static.
Right.
So if you have not seen the previous classes of methods, just check out where we have discussed that.
Why static method can only access static members, right?
Tell me why in the comment and you can know that non-static method.
Non-static method can access both static one also and non static members also both.
So similar rule here also.
Now here if you see that default it is non-static right.
So it can access static method.
It can access here my static public method.
It can access private method and it can even access private static method.
Right?
Second I have static.
So it is a static method.
So you know that static method can only access static members.
So see it can only call private static method this one only private static.
And here you can, uh, know that like you have a private and this one.
So this is the only difference I want to tell from static method we call only private static interface
method.
So this line I have already explained you why this static method.
Only static members can be called non-static method.
Both can be called.
So default is a non-static.
So you can call private also private static also normal static also.
And from static you can only call private static and y y only from static.
We can call a static member.
Please tell me in the comment because I have already explained this in our method video, right?
So this one is I have explained private interface method.
Private interface method cannot be abstract means we have to provide the definition.
So if you you can't create this as a private right.
So all abstract method should be public only because it's a very obvious because since we are making
it abstract, somebody has to provide the implementation right in that class.
If you make it private, private means it cannot be accessed apart from this interface.
So it's a contradict.
So that's why any abstract method, you can't make it private and it can be used inside of a particular
interface only.
It can be used inside a private method.
Can only be used inside this interface.
No.
Apart from this interface.
No other class also which implementing this interface?
No.
Within this interface only.
I hope this.
Is clear.
Default method.
Static.
Private and private.
Static.
And in the interface now only one thing is left functional interface and lambda abstraction, which
is very very important.
And we'll cover separately in one video.
Okay guys thank you.
And do practice with your hand and just don't watch it.
Just do practice also.
Then only you will get doubts.
Then only we can clear ask question.
Otherwise certain doubts or problems will get unresolved.
Okay guys.
See you.
Bye.

--- Functional Interface and Lambda Expression - Java8 | Java Interface Part3 ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So in the interface or topic this is the last topic functional interface and lambda expression.
This is a Java eight feature and asked a lot in the interview.
Right.
So this is very very important.
Just a heads up okay.
So now let's start with this.
Let's see what we are going to cover today.
What is functional interface.
What is lambda expression.
How to use functional interface with lambda expression.
Advantages of functional interface.
And this is one of the use case because you know that interface can do a nesting from another.
Not nesting.
The function interface can extend from another interface.
So what are the different use cases can come okay.
So now let's start with what is functional interface.
So if an interface contains only one abstract method then it is known as functional interface.
You know that whenever we create an interface, right?
And if we don't define anything by default, what it is, it is public and abstract, right?
Even if you don't write into an interface, then you know that public and abstract will be added automatically,
right?
So this is if you can provide only the signature.
This is known as abstract method.
This is already we are clear.
So if an interface contain only one abstract method, only one abstract method that is known as functional
interface okay.
It is also known as Sam interface Sam is single abstract method.
The same thing.
Single abstract method okay.
So at the functional interface keyword can be used, but it is optional.
So here if you see that I have created an interface bird and created one abstract method, I haven't
written abstract.
You know that interface.
It will be added.
Public abstract automatically.
So this is an abstract method and I have provided only the signature are right.
So this is an abstract.
So I have used the functional interface keyword.
But this is also equivalent to this.
Also you can you don't have to use at the right functional interface.
This is just an optional.
So this will also be known as functional interface because why it has only one abstract method.
Okay.
But what's the difference.
Like if you put functional interface and if you try to add another.
So now here if you see I have used the functional interface keyword.
Now if you try to add another abstract method you will get a compilation error.
See okay.
So functional interface annotation or keyword force you restrict you that you cannot add another abstract
method.
But if you don't use at the functional keyword, if you have only one abstract method, it would be
known as functional interface, but it will not force you.
If you want to add another, you can add it.
Get height then it will not be a functional interface then because now it has two abstract methods.
Okay.
So you know right.
Why functional interface keyword you can use when you have to restrict that.
No other abstract method can be added okay.
Just see this also this example.
So I have put an add functional interface keyword and created one interface board.
And this is my one abstract method.
This is my one abstract method.
Now see this.
What definition says that functional interface contains?
Only one abstract method means you can have other methods like default.
So I can have a default method which has the implementation.
So only one abstract method is there.
I can have the default method.
I can have a static method which has and even the object class method.
So you.
I have already told you in the class topic that each class right is the child of object class.
So in object class has certain method like uh two string equal uh I think hash code.
So these are the methods which are present into object class.
So these methods are not considered as an abstract here.
If you see that see this example.
Normal uh not functional interface.
Just wanted to not show a normal.
Let's say I have created an interface test interface.
And I have defined a method two string.
Right.
This is similar to uh, what we have into an object class.
Right?
Two string.
Also the same is present.
The same.
It would be by default public.
So public string two string method definition is present here.
Now if you create a class which implements this interface, now you see that you don't have to provide
its definition, you don't have to provide it definition.
Why?
Because you know that each class by default extends from the object class itself.
Okay.
So generally that's why we said that.
So in the interface if you define any object class methods you don't have to provide the implementation
for it.
It's not required okay.
So this was just a normal interface here.
If you see that I have created a class which is extended this interface and see no error, I haven't
even implemented this.
Why?
Because this class by default extends this object class and definition is already provided here okay.
So in the functional interface you can have only one abstract method.
But you can have default method.
You can have static method, or you can even have the methods which are present into an object class.
Okay, so these are all allowed.
So this is still a functional interface because it has only one abstract method, even though it has
other methods like default static or objects.
So in functional interface only one abstract method is allowed.
But we can have other methods like default, static or methods inherited from the object class.
Okay.
So this is clear.
So this is what known as functional interface.
Okay.
So this is clear what is functional interface.
Interface which has only one abstract method.
But you can have default static and other methods also.
But only one abstract should be there.
Now the question comes is here.
Then what is lambda expression and why.
It's always comes whenever we discuss about functional interface how they are both related to each other.
This thing should come to a mind, right?
Let me explain you with this.
Uh, just don't see this now.
Let me first explain this.
This.
So what are the different ways to implement the functional interface?
Or you can say the normal interface.
Right.
So first way, as we already know using implements keyword.
So now let's say I have created a functional interface.
It's a very basic interface board and has one abstract method called can fly.
So you know that you we can create one class.
Let's say for the bird I have created one class eagle.
I have implemented this interface using the implement keyword.
Right.
So now it has to provide the definition of this can fly.
So it provided the definition of this.
So this is one of the way.
So now I can create an object of eagle, right?
So new Eagle, I have created an object of eagle, and the object reference is stored by the the bird
interface.
But this is only just a reference.
And you can call this method.
This is we have already seen right.
This is very basic.
So this is one of the way you can implement the functional interface.
Like whatever the method you have use the implement and do it.
What is the second way.
So this was the first way.
What is the second way.
Second way is using anonymous class.
If you have watched the class uh class topic video, I have explained what is anonymous class, right?
A class without a name is called anonymous class.
So let's say this is the interface.
Functional interface I have interface bird same one abstract method.
Right.
And in the main method without even creating class implement and all I can create an anonymous.
This thing so bird an object right?
It will hold the reference of the object which will create.
Now how you will create an anonymous class.
So new bird and provide the implementation here.
Right.
So provide the implementation here.
Override this method can fly and provide this the complete implementation.
So new bird and then the block starts block end here and semicolon.
And within this you have whatever the method you have you have to provide its definition.
Right.
And so this eagle object which holds the reference of the whatever the new internal.
So internally it will create a class, implement it.
But it's an anonymous.
In the example I showed you that it will create some with random name.
Which compiler decides right the name.
So it's an that's why it's known as anonymous class.
So internally what it's doing is nothing but the same.
It will create one class with its own name and implement this bird.
Then write a method.
This implement this method and using this eagle object you can access.
This can fly vertical or not okay.
So this is we have already seen that how you can implement the anonymous.
This is known as anonymous class right.
So we have already covered that one.
So if you are totally not recalling it so I will suggest that please check what is anonymous class.
Because there we have explained in depth like internally what it does.
It create a new class itself with the name which is decided by the compiler.
But this is the way through anonymous.
Now what is the third way?
So third way is using lambda expression.
So now you know that why While lambda expression is always comes into the picture when we always talk
about the functional interface.
So it's a way of implementing the interface.
Lambda expression is a way to implement the functional interface.
One way is using implement.
Second way is using anonymous.
Third way is now Lambda in Java eight.
Right now you say that hey like why we need lambda expression to implement when we have already two
ways to implement our interface.
So notice one thing in this two.
So let's say this anonymous class.
So here you have to implement this method an interface which has only one abstract method only one right.
So here if you see there are too much verbose.
So only this thing, this line is your.
Which is you required rest is all Java verbose like create a new this block start put override, put
a method can fly and then do this.
So here if you see that in the with the help of lambda expression.
The main intention here is to reduce this verbose right.
So that's why they have used with the functional interface.
Because in functional interface we know that there would be only one only one abstract method.
So why we need to provide this method name.
Right.
Because we know that functional interface will have only one abstract method.
So there is no need to provide the like which method you want to override it, so that it would be only
for the one abstract method.
So it tried to reduce the verbose.
So now let's see how the lambda expression can be used.
So the same thing I have a functional interface basic and the can fly.
One abstract method.
Then the main method.
So instead of anonymous, now I am using a lambda expression.
See how so bird.
And this will holds the reference of the object.
Okay now here if you see that this is what lambda expression is.
So this is you can say that generally the arrow operator or generally the lambda operator.
Generally we can say arrow operator or lambda operator.
So first is this.
Okay.
If your abstract method does not accept any input parameter then it would be empty.
If it accept any input parameter then you can provide that input parameter.
You don't need to give the name and all that is not even required because lambda expression is you have
only one method, one abstract method in an functional interface, so no need to use the name can fly
and all.
So if your method doesn't accept any input parameter, it would be empty.
If it accepts, provide it over here.
So can fly accept one input parameter that is string.
Well, so I have given one string and it can be one.
What is the name of the value then?
This is the arrow operator which says that okay okay we are doing a lambda.
Implementing the functional interface.
Right.
So this is the lambda operator.
And then you can start the block.
Finish the block semicolon at the end.
And you can just provide the implementation.
What we were giving here.
Okay.
If you have more than one one line right.
If you have only one line then this block also not required.
It would simply work like this.
Uh.
System.out.println.
That's all.
finished.
If you have more than one line, you have to provide the block.
So now you here see that like, lot of verbose has been removed out of this using this lambda expression.
Okay.
So first thing is start this block, provide the arrow operator.
And if it is only one line you don't need this blocks.
If you have more than one line then you need this blocks.
You need to provide this block.
And inside this provide the implementation.
And we can similarly access this like eagle object dot can fly.
So you got it.
What is the use of lambda expression.
Right.
Why it is always used with function interface.
Okay.
So just don't worry about this lambda expression.
Like it will get more clear with the different examples which I'm going to give you.
So now let's see the type of functional interface.
There are four types Right, which is already inbuilt.
You can say that this is already inbuilt, right?
Sometimes you don't have to.
Right.
Function interface.
You can use it.
What is already existing.
So first type is consumer.
So if you see this package Java dot util dot function inside this package you will see this all for
consumer supplier function and predicate.
Okay.
So let's see one by one what is consumer function interface.
So here what would happen is represent an operation that accepts a single input parameter and return
no result.
So it's function interface looks like this.
It has at the functional interface.
Then an interface with name consumer right with the name consumer.
And it's a generic type.
So I think you already know we have already covered generic classes.
Right.
You already know how this has been handled?
Right.
So this is the generic interface.
Right.
But it's then functional means only one abstract would be there.
One abstract method would be there.
So what is the name of the abstract method here except.
Okay.
So what this consumer says that this functional interface, whatever the abstract method it has, it
will accept only one accept a single input parameter, only single input parameter and returns no result.
Returns no result.
Okay.
Let's see.
Supplier.
What supplier says that represent the supplier of the result.
Accept no input parameter but produces a result so very similar to this one I have created a functional
interface supplier.
It is already there in this package okay.
Again it's a generic one means you can return anything string boolean, integer whatever you want right.
So here, if you see that what this definition says that accept no input parameter, so no input parameter
and produces a result.
So it produces the result.
Okay.
Now let's see one by one I think you got the gist.
Like what is the types of functional interface like.
So consumer we already know that this functional interface already exist and which accept one input
parameter but returns no output okay.
And how you can use it.
So let's say I have created one main class main method.
Right.
And I have creating a variable reference where a object reference where I will store the object whatever
it's going to create.
Right.
And in this one I want to let's say pass integer.
So I am passing an integer one right.
So it accept one parameter right.
So I it's a generic right.
So either you can pass integer or string boolean whatever you wanted.
So I am implementing it with an integer.
So it accepts one input parameter.
So this is not empty.
I am passing one integer variable here.
Okay then arrow.
That means it's a lambda expression.
And we are implementing the function interface.
And I have more than one line.
So I am using the block.
Block start block and semicolon.
And inside this you can do anything.
You don't have to return anything.
You just process it.
So I'm getting a value.
So I'm just processing it.
Hey value is greater than ten.
I'm just putting a print logging.
Do something.
Okay.
So some processing.
And whatever the object's reference, it hold logging object.
You can call this accept method.
Right.
And you pass the value 11.
So it will internally invoke this one.
It will pass 11 here, 11 greater than ten.
It will print lodging.
Right.
Very, very similar to anonymous, but only thing is certain.
Verbose has been reduced similarly when to use supplier.
Now if you you can use supplier when you don't want to pass any input parameter, but you want to get
certain out of it.
Okay.
So now let's see here I am passing.
So this is the function interface.
Now I am implementing supplier.
This is my object reference.
And this is the generic.
So I have to tell like what type of whether string integer or any.
I have to give the type okay.
So here I have given the type.
Now here.
Is it accepting anything.
No.
So that's why I have created an empty one.
And I don't want to create a block.
I have only one line.
So here if you see that I haven't started or ended the block, I just simply this is the data I am returning,
so it will simply return it.
Okay.
And this is very equivalent to this what we have seen till now.
Supplier.
What is the generic type A string.
This is the object reference.
No input.
So it is just like this arrow parameter lambda parameter.
You can even start the block and the block even for one line also.
But now you can like this return.
This is the data I am returning.
Right.
So this is the two way for one line.
You don't need a block and this don't have to write a return.
It will simply return.
But when you're creating a block it would be like a normal.
You have to return this like this way right.
And how you can call whatever this object reference you have created dot get.
So this is supplier no input but there is a return.
Similarly, there is a function.
Function says that except one argument parameter and produces a result.
So means it accepts.
Also it returns also.
Okay, so the function interface is looks like this.
It's a function interface.
Only one abstract method.
And then the generic type it accepts two types t and r.
So t is the your argument.
What type it is going to be R is your return type.
So see how I am implementing function this one.
So it accepts two generic types.
So I pass integer.
So this would be your integer argument.
It will accept return type would be of string okay.
And the object reference.
Now it accepts one parameter.
So you have to provide the integer.
So integer certain data okay.
Then argument starts.
Uh lambda expression starts, provide the implementation and you can process it like so.
Whatever the number I'm getting, I'm just converting it to a string.
So num dot two string and return this output.
So what I'm returning I'm returning a string.
Okay.
So you can use this functional interface whenever you accept and return also.
So there is one more type of predicate.
Predicate is like accept but always return boolean accept but always return boolean.
Represent function that accept one argument and returns the boolean.
Okay, so I think now can you implement it without even looking right.
Uh, it's a very simple right.
So pause it here.
Just try to implement this.
Right.
So here it accept an integer.
So you it would be like integer Any value implemented.
Lambda expression.
Let's say if you have more than one line, it block, start block and semicolon.
Now whatever you have processed it and it should return the boolean ultimately true or false whatever
it would be.
So predicate are whatever the type generic.
So let's say I whatever the input parameter, let's say I want to pass the integer is even or not.
So I am passing one argument here.
Now lambda expression start my block.
I'm just checking whether, whatever the value I have entered, is it an integer or not.
So a basic method, if it's a equals to equals to zero, return true, else false.
That's all okay.
And how you can call it is even whatever the object reference you have created called dot test method.
Right.
So you know right why we are not writing test here.
That's what lambda expression resolve internally does.
It knows that this functional interface has only one abstract method.
We don't have to write test over here.
It is very, very similar to anonymous only very very similar to anonymous only.
But in anonymous we have to provide the method name.
But lambda expression says that I work only on functional interface, I work only lambda expression
can only work with functional interface.
Functional interface has only one abstract method.
So that's where we don't have to provide the method name.
Otherwise it is very very similar to anonymous implementation.
You got this one.
So these are the four types consumer supplier function predicate right.
So if you think that apart from this four you have certain other requirement then you can write your
own functional interface.
But if you think that your requirement gets satisfied with this input or return type, you can use already
existing whatever it is available.
Okay.
If you think that.
No, no, I have a total different requirement.
I have 4 or 5 parameters to be entered and need to return or not return.
So then you can write your own function interface.
Okay.
Now let's see.
You know that interface can extend each other.
So we just need to see that how to handle that use case.
So let's say use case one functional interface.
Extended non functional interface.
So this is my non-functional interface.
Basic living thing interface.
It has only one abstract method can breathe.
It is extended by a functional interface interface.
Bird extends living thing.
And it also put one abstract method.
So now here if you see that one abstract method here one abstract method is here.
So generally all the parent abstract method is also carry forward.
Right.
So this that's why it show compilation error because functional interface should have only one abstract
method.
But because of this extend any abstract method which is present into the parent interface that also
get added to here.
So that's why it's a compilation error.
This is wrong but this is right.
So now let's say interface has living thing has default right.
And now I have a functional interface which extends this living thing.
This works fine because it has only one abstract method.
This is nothing but a default.
So it can have a default method okay.
Second use case interface extending functional interface.
So now I have a functional interface.
First living thing which is a functional interface means only one abstract method should be there.
It has only one abstract method.
Now I have an interface, but it is not a functional interface.
It is a normal interface.
It extends living thing.
It also have one abstract method, but since it extends, this abstract also comes to it.
But this is fine because since we haven't put at the functional interface above bird, so we are not
restricting that, you should have only one abstract method.
So you have one, and one is coming from your parent extend.
So even though you can have two but now you are not a functional interface right.
So this will work fine because this is we haven't put the at the rate keyword so it can have more than
one abstract method.
So this will work fine.
Third use case functional interface.
Extending other functional interface.
So see this I have a functional interface living thing have one abstract method.
I have another functional interface.
But extending from this it is also have another abstract method.
See?
It has can breathe.
It has can fly.
Different method.
So means this is one abstract method for this one.
And from parent also this is also coming to it.
So it has two abstract method which is wrong.
But see this one if both the functional interface.
So this is your parent living thing.
This is your child.
This extends the living thing if both have the same method.
Public boolean can breathe public or sorry.
Yeah by default is public only public boolean can breathe.
Both has the same method right?
Then this is allowed.
This is just like you overrided it, right?
So this is allowed but different is not allowed even when the same signature is allowed and how you
can implement it.
I think you can do it right.
So now let's say bird interface I have to implement.
So you have to create a bird reference object.
Any object where you will hold it.
It is taking empty.
So empty I don't have to pass the parameter Lambda expression.
Start can breathe returns boolean.
Right.
So let's say I don't have to write a block, I just need to return true.
So just put true finish right.
And with this object you can call this method can breathe object dot can breathe right.
So I have this object is my eagle Lambda.
This is start no input parameter lambda expression start simply returns true can breathe.
So this is clear right.
So this is so generally when the two end functional interface or one is extended from other.
If they both have the same method then there is no issue because you can easily implement it will override
it.
But if it is different then it's an issue.
So this is pretty much of our functional interface and lambda expression.
I think you are just practice it once and I think you should be now clear, like why lambda expression
is always, always comes and used with functional interface.
Because one simple answer before we going Lambda expression is a way to implement a functional interface.
It is minimizing the verbose which is there in the, let's say in the previous ways.
You don't have to because functional interface only has one method abstract method.
It don't have to write a method name and all.
So that's how it is able to reduce the verbose write.
Okay guys.
So just try to implement it once and see.
Is this all getting properly clear to you and any doubt?
Please feel free to ping me in the comment.
Okay guys, see you.
Bye.

--- Java Reflection in Depth with Examples ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So till now in Java we have seen classes interfaces.
So just after this there is a very good concept called reflection.
Right.
So I will tell you when it comes into the picture when you should use it.
Because we use it very rarely.
Right.
But this is a very good interview question and I will tell you why we use it very rarely.
Also okay.
But let's first go and understand what is reflection actually and what it is capable of doing it right.
So now let's start with this okay.
So first is what is reflection.
This is used to examine the classes methods fields interface at runtime right.
What it say used to examine the classes.
What all the methods it have.
What all the fields it have.
So it is used to examine those at runtime when the program is running right.
And it also provides a capability to change the behavior of the class.
When we say that, change the behavior of the class.
What do you mean by change?
The behavior means you are changing the field values, right?
How the class behave.
Right.
So behavior depend upon the field values.
So reflection provide you also the capability to change the field values during runtime when the program
is running right.
And it helps you to examine examine means okay for this class.
How many methods are there.
What all fields are there?
What is the modifier?
How many constructors are there?
So it's like examining self examine.
So for example what all methods present in the class, what all fields present in the class.
What is the return type of the method modifier of the class?
What all interfaces this class has implemented change the value of public and private field of the class.
We'll see all the examples, but see for a particular class it can know everything.
Okay, so you at least now you know what is reflection.
It is used to examine the class.
And but the question comes is hey how do you reflect of the class.
How do you reflection of the classes?
Okay.
So now let's do this to reflect the class we first need to create an object of class right.
So there is a class with the name class itself.
So this is the one class.
So the name of the class itself is class right.
So don't get confused when I say class class.
So the name of the class itself is the class.
So we have to get an object of this class name as class right.
So now first, before we understand how to do a reflection of the classes, we first need to get a little
bit more about the same.
We have heard this name first time we have completed the classes we have completed the interfaces.
But this name we haven't heard before like so.
Let's understand about this class what this class does actually.
Okay.
So what is this class.
Class right.
So first of all the instance of this class right.
The instance of this class represent classes during runtime.
So let's say you have ten classes.
You have ten classes like one is bird class.
You have class bird you have class.
Let's say any other class animal like this.
You have ten classes for each of this class.
bird.
Animal, let's say lion.
For each of this class, you will get one class associated with this.
For each one there will be one class also.
Right?
And who creates that?
JVM creates one JVM creates one class object for each and every class which is loaded during runtime.
So when your Java program is running.
I told you in the initially that JVM loads the classes as when it required.
So let's say JVM is trying to use the bird class.
The code is trying to use the bird class, so JVM loads that class, and when the JVM loads that class,
JVM also internally creates an object of this.
Also the class object.
This one, right?
So all the classes, whatever the classes you have in your code base, if JVM is using it, it also
attach one or it also creates one object of this class.
Right.
But why?
Why does it do that?
This class object, this class object has metadata information about the particular class like its method
field construction.
So now you have created, let's say bird.
It has let's say a certain fields method constructor modifier let's say return type parameter.
So there are so many things happens in the class constructor has parameters methods as parameter field
public or private.
So whenever you create a class and whenever Java JVM is about to use it, and when it loaded it when
it also creates this class objects.
Right.
The object of this class.
And this has metadata information about your class.
Okay.
Get me the methods.
So it has exposed all the methods get methods.
So all the methods which you have here, it will return that it get me the fields.
You will get all the fields which you have defined in this one.
So it has so many methods.
So it has all the metadata information about the class which you have.
JVM has just loaded.
Right.
So now how to get this particular class object.
So now you can question can come is hey I have this class bird right I have this class bird.
Now JVM might have created one class object of this.
How I can get that for my class bird, right?
How to get that class objects?
Because we are saying that JVM creates one object each and every time the class is loaded.
Right.
So how to get that class object so that I can get all the metadata information.
So there are three ways you can get the class objects.
First using for name method.
Assume that we have one class called bird.
So let's say you have a class bird.
Okay so you have a class bird.
Normal.
Basic.
Okay.
Now we wanted its class object.
How we can get it using for name class dot for name and give the string of the class name which you
are wanted to expect this objects.
So class dot for name.
And what is the name of your class which you wanted first?
Bird.
So it will return this class for this bird class.
So it will get the object of a class.
It will get the object of a class for getting the metadata information of bird class right now.
Using this, I can get the metadata information of this bird.
Okay.
So for name is one way through which you can get this class object.
Other way is using dot class.
So again let's say you have a bird class already there.
Now you want its class object so that you can fetch its metadata.
How you can do bird dot class.
This will also return you its class object.
Okay.
Third way is using Getclass method.
Right?
So now let's say you have a class bird and you have created its object.
Now using this object also you can do get class right.
So using the object Also, you can do getclass and you will get the class object.
So these are the three ways through which you can now get an object of this class, which actually JVM
creates.
Right?
You do not create.
Okay.
Now let's go back to our first question.
What we started it how to do reflection of classes.
How to do reflection of classes.
Okay.
Now let's go with an example.
Now things will get little bit more clear to you.
Let's say this is our basic class.
Normal class eagle.
So public class eagle.
It has one public field breed one private field okay.
And I have two methods fly which is printing something.
One is eat.
It is also printing something okay.
So this is a very very basic class with one public field one private field and two methods.
Now let's see how to do a reflection of this class.
So this is just a main method.
And now see I am using Eagle dot class.
So I am using this approach to get the class objects which JVM creates right.
So I did Eagle dot class.
This will give me its class object with JVM has created.
Now see this Eagle class has all the metadata information about this Eagle.
This one.
Right?
So I can do that with this objects of class object I can do eagle class dot get name right.
So what it will return it will return me the name of the class.
Right.
This is an object Eagle class object.
Eagle class object.
So this Eagle class object I am doing get name.
So what name it will do?
It will return me the name of this class.
So it name of the class is Eagle.
Now I see I am getting the modifier.
Eagle class object Eagle class object dot get modifier right.
So now what it will do is this class modifier is public so it will return public.
Okay so see what I have done I have first get an instance of class.
Get an instance of class for the whatever class which you wanted to reflect, get its class object.
And then second, using this class object you can fetch its all the metadata information you wanted
to access.
Right.
So here what all methods available.
So there are all Get methods available.
No set methods available here in this one.
Right.
So here see I can do so.
There are so many get methods about this class.
You can fetch so many information Remembering all this Get method is not possible.
It's like, uh, as soon as you start using it, you will get it.
So here's a say get fields.
It will return me all the fields.
Right?
Breed can swim here, declared fields.
I'll tell you what is the difference between get fields and declare fields, right?
Similarly here, if you see that get name, we have used it.
Return the name of the class itself.
Eagle.
Okay, now see this one?
So I told you that whenever you get a class object you can do call this get methods.
And you get an information about multiple things of a class like what are the fields, what are the
constructors.
What are the methods.
Like this.
Get constructors.
It will return you list of constructors like get fields, get declared fields.
It will return you list of fields.
What all fields you have, right.
So now here, if you see that this constructor, this fields, these are all present into Java dot lang
dot reflect package.
Right.
Okay.
So now you know that how to do a reflection of a class.
Now let's see how to do reflection of method.
So again this is a very very basic class right.
The same example with public field one private field and one public method and one private method.
Now.
Okay.
So now first when we want to reflect of a method, the first step is get a reflection of this class.
How you will get a reflection of this class.
There are three ways you can use any one way.
So I am using Eagle dot class right.
So I'm using Eagle dot class.
Through this you can get a this instance class instance.
Now what is the requirement.
We need to do reflection of a method.
So from this you can do get methods.
So I told you that this is one of the method get methods here.
Get methods.
So now when you do get methods it will return you a list of method.
Now remember that this this method which we are using the Get methods.
This will return just all public methods.
It will return only it will return all public methods.
So we have fly.
We have eat.
So it will return only all the public one.
So only fly will get return.
So I get a list of methods.
I am iterating over it right.
And now see on this method I can again fetch all this method metadata.
So what all this method metadata.
What is the modifier.
What is the return type.
What are all the parameters.
Right.
Like this.
What is the name of this method.
Right.
Like this.
So I am what I am fetching method dot get name.
What is the name of the method?
So it will print fly.
What is the Methodget return type?
Return type is void method dot.
Declaring classes in which class this method is declared right, so it will print Eagle.
Okay, so now I am iterating.
I am iterating, right?
So what it will do is it will.
I told you every class internally is a child class of object.
And object also has certain methods like wait, notify and all those things.
So when I did get method, when I did get methods.
So what it returns is all the public methods of all in its class.
Plus also in its superclass is the parent class.
So now here, if you see that after doing this fly only public if private, it didn't show.
It goes to a parent.
Parent was object and object what?
All the public methods are there.
It will also start printing it like wait, so wait return type is void and this method is defined into
which one Java.lang dot object.
Because object internally is a parent of all these classes.
Okay, so this is how you reflect a method.
Now you can ask me, right?
Hey, but what if you wanted to access a private method?
How we will do that.
So see this example?
I am doing it again.
The first thing is reflect the class dot class.
Now if you wanted to fetch the methods of this class only, not its parent object.
No, only this class.
Only this class.
Plus all methods, no matter public or private, you can use get declared methods.
So all public and private methods.
It will return within Eagle class only, right?
So now if you iterate and put a method name, it will put fly eat.
So it will put fly eat.
And.
But it didn't go an object and didn't print its weight and all.
Okay.
So if you want only this class but all public private so you can use get declared methods.
Okay.
And so this is how you do reflection of the methods.
So now here if you see that in the method itself there are multiple uh you can get methods are available.
You can use what is the return type of a method in which class this method is defined.
Is there any default value set for the method?
Like what is the exception it throws?
What are the modifiers right.
So these are so many methods which are available.
What are the parameter.
How many parameter parameter count how many parameter this method accepts and all.
So you can get all this metadata information about a particular method using this uh one methods which
is available in Java dot lang dot reflect package.
Okay.
So now there is one good thing is here in the reflection is so you can say that, uh, the capability
which you can say is that you can also invoke the method.
Right.
So here if you see that okay I can get the method name I can get what is the metadata information about
a particular method.
Can I invoke the method from here itself.
Yes you can.
You can even invoke the methods also.
Right.
And see how we can invoke it.
So invoking a method using reflection.
So now see this one a very basic class.
Very basic class.
Same eagle right.
And one method only that one method is fly method.
And let's say it is accepting certain parameter input parameter a certain parameter with name boolean
and string.
And it is just printing right.
Now through reflection I need to invoke this.
Right.
How can I invoke this?
Okay.
The first thing first, while doing a reflection you need a class object for this eagle.
How you can get the class object.
So now I am using the first method class dot for name, and I have given the name of the class which
I wanted.
Let's say Eagle.
This is a string, right?
So for this one I got the its equivalent class object with JVM created, right?
now.
See, what I am doing is to invoke a class, you need to have its object.
Right?
Right.
And how you can get an object.
So now you get.
So now you have a class object.
Now using that class object you call dot new instance.
When you call this method right, it internally invokes its constructor and you will get its object
right.
So you get the object, the method which we have to fetch.
We have to fetch the method which we have to invoke.
So we have got already the instance of this class right?
The class one.
Now using this class I am get the method.
Hey is there any method with name fly and which has a parameter like int dot class boolean dot class
like boolean string dot class string.
So what it will do is it will try to fetch this method.
It will try to fetch this method which matches this name method name.
And with these parameters integer boolean string.
So yes it find ones.
Yes.
There is a method in this eagle which has this method name as fly and parameters are also matching like
integer, boolean and string, integer, boolean and string.
Right.
So now this method reflection method has this reflection of this method actually.
Okay.
So now I can use this fly method which is a reflection of this.
Right now I am doing that.
Hey dot invoke.
Invoke it.
Right.
And what I will pass I will pass the object.
The new.
The new instance one.
The real object which actually got created, right.
And now I am passing the value which I wanted to, let's say integer and passing one inside boolean
I'm passing true and some string I'm passing.
Hello.
So that's how reflection works.
Means you can even invoke the methods also, right?
So see, it invokes the method.
It passes fly parameters.
And this okay so do try it out.
Now we'll see the reflection of fields.
Same thing we can do on the fields also.
Right.
So now first thing if you if you want to do a reflection of a field, one thing is clear.
What the first step you need.
You need the class instance of this eagle.
So this is the first thing.
Right.
This is the first thing Eagle dot class.
So I'm using this I'm getting a eagle instance okay.
Now.
I wanted to access the fields.
So this is the second.
Now the this has exposed a method through which I can fetch the field, get fields.
Right.
And when you fetch the fields, what it will do is it will return only public.
It will return only public fields.
So I have two fields.
Breed which is public, can swim which is private.
So using this method get fields, it will return only public fields.
Now you can access this field and now fetch this field.
All this metadata like what is the modifier.
What is the type of this field.
What is the name of the field.
Like this.
So now printing field dot get name.
Field dot get type.
What is the modifier.
So name is breed.
Type is a string.
Modifier is public, okay, but if you want to access the private field you can use get declared field.
So in the class instance you can call get declared field.
This will return both public and private.
Right.
So name method type and modifier.
So breed string public and swim boolean private.
So both this is the public.
This is the private.
So both get printed.
So you can even access the fields also.
Right.
So these are all the Get methods supported into this field.
So once you get a field this one object.
So within that field object you can call many methods.
So these are the things you can fetch about a particular field.
Get me the name.
Get its modifier.
What is its type.
Right.
So there are so many methods which you can use to fetch the information about a particular field.
So I told you that with reflection you can even change the value, change the behavior of the class.
When you say that, change the behavior of a class means you can change the parameters, right?
Or not parameter the field values.
So a class has many member variables.
You can change the value of those member variables also.
How?
So now I first I will show you how to set the value of a public field.
Then I will show you how to set the value of a private field.
Right.
So first let's see we have a public field breed right.
Now let's see how to set its value.
So first thing is you need an instance of your Eagle class.
So that's what I am first doing right.
The second thing is you have to fetch the particular field which you wanted to change its value.
So from this Eagle class I wanted to get a get declared field.
with the name breed.
If there is any field with the name breed, I will get in the field object.
Okay, and once you get the field object, you can use the set method available, right?
So field dot set you have to pass here object the instance one.
So either you can use this or you can either do eagle class dot new instance I think right.
Write this method inside.
This will also return you an object of this eagle right.
So either you can create this with a specific name itself, or you can use this and get an object and
pass that right and what value you want it to set I wanted to set let's say on the breed Eagle Brown
breed something.
Right.
And now when I am printing this using this object, right?
Using this object, I am even accessing the public field and what it set the value.
Eagle brown bit.
Right.
So first is get an instance of a eagle class instance.
Second is get the field which you wanted to set.
So I wanted to set the breed.
Let's say if this field is not exist because let's say I do a spelling mistake b r e p something instead
of d, I put a b so it will throw an exception like no such field exception.
We will learn about this exception handling maybe in the next session, but just assume that if you
pass a wrong name, which is or the field name which is not even exist, you will get an exception.
But if you pass the name and if it is exist, you will get the field.
And using this field you can set.
And when you set, you have to pass an object, the object.
Either you can create it like this.
Eagle specific how we create.
Or we can even use a reflection to create an object like eagle class dot new instance.
You will get an object instance of this.
Pass it and the value so it will set it, and you can use that object itself to access your public fields.
You will get it.
Now let's say how to set the value of a private.
So we see okay how to set a field for public.
But will this also work for the private.
Also if you do the same thing because you know that declared field will return you both public and private.
So you first create the class eagle class instance.
Then you fetch the field and now you are trying to setting it the value right.
This will throw an exception.
The class main cannot access a member of a class eagle with modifier private.
This is a private field.
The main class.
You know that the private field can only be accessed within a class in which it is defined.
So can swim is defined in an Eagle class.
Can swim is defined in an eagle class only.
Within this class it can be accessed.
So I tried to access this.
I tried to access this private field in a main class now.
So that's why it throws an error.
So now the question comes is hey then how to access the private field.
So yes we through reflection you can even access or set the value of the private field also.
Right.
And see how there is a hack.
First is the same.
Get an class instance for this eagle.
Whatever the class you wanted the reflection work on.
Second is Get the field which you wanted to set the value.
Let's say this is the private field I wanted to set right within this class.
Now see this thing I am making this.
This is important for doing the private thing.
I am making set accessible.
True.
So internally it changes kind of a modifier that for this one main.
Now it is able to access it.
It is you can say that it is giving its right to change the private value to access the private value.
So set accessible.
The field I put set accessible true now means it's internally.
This main class now will be able to access it.
And now then I change its value field dot.
Set the instance of an object this eagle which I created.
Or you can use the reflection object uh, with like eagle class Dot new instance and whatever the object
you will get, you can also use that and you can set its value.
But here, if you see that the main through reflection, you can even access the private field.
And that is one of the disadvantage of reflection is there is no control now in the code that using
reflection no like encapsulation we say that encapsulation property or oops, that if you declare it
private only through the methods, no direct access can be happen, but reflection breaks it.
So that's one of the thing.
So now you know that we can change the value of a field also.
Now one more thing is reflection of constructor which I wanted to show.
This is very, very important.
Why this is one is very very important because of Singleton.
You know that singleton is very important question in an interview.
Right.
And this reflection actually breaks singleton.
So how reflection breaks singleton that I will show you will see through the reflection of constructor.
So I have this basic class eagle I have a I see I have a private constructor.
Right.
And you know, when you have a private constructor means you cannot create its you cannot call it you
cannot create new eagle.
You cannot do that.
You can't create its object.
Right.
Okay.
So it has a private constructor and it has one method.
Now see what I am doing first step for this class.
Anything I want to reflect in this class method constructor.
Anything.
First step is get the reflection of this glass.
I did that using this.
Second step.
I want to access all the constructor present into this class.
So I am using the class instance dot get declared constructors right?
So it will return me all the constructors which is present.
So it is only one as of now.
So because of this declared constructor, I will get both public and private one.
So I'll get the list of constructor.
Now I am iterating over this constructor, right?
I am putting constructor dot get modifier.
What is the modifier private right.
And so that it will print that okay.
So it will print that the private one.
Now see what I can do.
Also, since this is a private even for this constructor Eagle constructor which is a private eye cam
changing its set accessible true means you are giving access to this main class to even now X is this
constructor because it's a private.
For only private you have to say set accessibility to true and see.
Now I am calling this constructor.
Whatever the constructor I have, I am calling dot new instance right?
And it's creating a new object of it.
See, I got an eagle object and from Eagle object I created a fly.
So even though the constructor is private, you cannot create an object of this class.
There is no way you can call a method this, because this is not a static method and you can't create
it directly with the class name.
You can only call this method with an object.
So since the constructor is private, there is no way you can call this method and see how reflection
breaks it.
Reflection.
First, through this class it take out the constructor and if it sends a private constructor, what
it does is it change its accessibility.
Make it true that this can now access the constructor.
And using this constructor, it calls the new instance method, right?
And it's get an Eagle object right.
And it get an Eagle object.
And using this Eagle object it calls the fly.
Now here, if you see that that's what it breaks Singleton.
Because in singleton also we have a private constructor.
But with reflection you can even access the private constructor and create a new object.
So through reflection you can break singleton.
I think you already got your answer that why Reflection is not encouraged to use because it breaks the
principle of encapsulation itself, right?
You intend to declare a method private.
You are able to access it.
You intend to declare a field private, you are able to access it and even change the value right?
So there is no control.
Also, second point reflection is slow.
Reflection is slow.
Why?
It is slow?
Because in C it's all happening at runtime.
It makes your program slow if you already know the class, if you have already know the class, you
can.
If you can already fetch the method directly, right?
Uh, this object dot get this method.
Pass this.
There is no way.
There is no need to use reflection and do all this things.
It first of all increase the complexity of understanding.
Second, reflection works during runtime so it make your code slow.
It will try to fetch runtime it try to resolve that okay with the name you have passed.
It will search.
Do you have that field present or not?
So it is slower than if you can access them directly, right?
So try to avoid reflection as much as possible.
But if not, if really you wanted to use it, then definitely all this capability reflection has.
Right?
But do see that.
Remember that how through reflection we can create a new object of this one constructor, one very,
very important part, very very important interview question.
Also it can break singleton right.
So generally just to before we go singleton can be saved from the reflection is in the private.
Because singleton purpose is only one object should be created.
Right.
So no one should able to create or call this private constructor and create.
So there we put that if let's say any instance which you have, if it is not equals to null throw exception
because if instance is already created, if instance is not created, only one time will get created
through new but not other.
So one if condition will can save you from this reflection.
But yeah, that's a separate thing.
Will go more in depth.
Uh, but I wanted to teach you the reflection part.
Okay, guys, hope that's clear.
It's a very, very important topic.
So do practice with your hand.
Now.
Any question, any doubt, please comment down.
I will reach back to you as soon as possible.
But don't just watch and say that it's done right it right.
All this, uh, classes, methods, field constructor, private members, uh, and public members.
Try to access it, change the value, invoke it right with your hand.
Okay, guys.
See you soon.
Bye.

--- Java Annotations - Part1 | Deprecated, Override, FunctionalInterface etc. ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in Java we are going to cover annotations.
Right.
It's a very very important topic.
You will gonna use it a lot right a lot.
And I don't want to break it into multiple parts because this is very interesting.
So don't want to break the flow.
So please bear with me.
It might be a little bit long video, not much.
I'll as I have done a lot of pre work of writing it.
So we will go slow but cover all today.
Okay so let's start what is annotation.
Right.
So it is a kind of adding metadata to the Java code right.
So if you have not seen the reflection video till yet please check the previous video of this Java series
reflection because we are going to use a reflection here also.
So until unless you are not clear with the reflection, I won't suggest that you will start annotations.
Okay, so in reflection you know that a class have so many metadata information and reflection is used
to access those metadata.
So annotation is nothing but a kind of metadata.
And you can use reflection to access that metadata.
So means you can access annotation using reflection.
Okay.
We will see that with an example.
But understand this.
It is just kind of adding metadata to the Java code.
So it's usage is optional.
Its usage is totally optional.
It won't break anything if you don't use it.
Don't write it write it.
Just metadata.
Write data of data right.
So you can use this metadata information at runtime and can add certain logic in our code if wanted.
Right.
So you know that you can add certain metadata.
You can add certain data which you wanted to add.
And during runtime using reflection, you can access those metadata and perform certain operation.
So that's why I said that you can use this metadata at runtime while your code is running.
And that time you can add certain logic if you wanted.
We'll see with an example also.
How to read this metadata information.
Or I would say that how to read this annotation which you have added.
The answer is reflection because I told you reflection is used to access the metadata of the class,
right?
And annotation is nothing but a kind of metadata.
Annotation can be applied anywhere like classes, method, interface fields, parameters, etc. so we
will see all the different places where we can apply.
But this annotation we can apply at anywhere.
Okay.
Let's see one example first which is very very common.
And we have till now seen it might be so many times.
So this is a simple interface class bird.
Right.
And you are creating one class which implements this bird.
And you are overriding this method.
So you know that at the rate override method we apply.
But this is optional.
Even if you don't write it, nothing will happen, right?
Even if you don't write it, nothing will happen.
It will be treated as a method only, but at the rate override, which is nothing but your annotation,
right?
So annotation is denoted using at the rate okay.
So this annotation provide a particular metadata information.
So during may be compiler at runtime it will check okay.
This method has this annotation metadata.
So this is now I'm kind of adding a metadata.
I'm providing certain information to the compiler at runtime.
Hey, this method has this annotation.
You need to make sure now it will perform certain logic.
Hey, you need to make sure that this method should be exactly same as method in the interface or parent
class, right?
So now what you have seen is here.
Like now we have added a metadata and compiler is using it to add certain logic.
Okay.
So here you have seen this.
This is known as annotation okay.
Starting with at the rate.
So you got it right.
What is annotation.
So anywhere you will see this at the rate something.
Just remember that it is an annotation.
It is optional right.
It's it's because it's a metadata.
Metadata is optional.
Right.
And you can use this information runtime to add certain logic.
Okay.
And how to access this metadata through reflection.
But we will see all this example and it will get clearer and clearer.
So now let's see first type of annotations which we have.
One is predefined annotation which is already present into the Java or Java has already given us so
many thing.
And custom annotation.
User defined annotation.
We can define our own right at the rate.
I can also create right at the rate.
Hello.
Right.
I can create with any name.
Right?
So that is with custom name.
And one is predefined with Java has already given us.
So in the predefined.
Also there are two categories generally.
So one is which is used on the Java code like classes methods field interfaces parameters.
Right.
Whatever the Java code you write.
So in that itself you can use certain annotation like at the rate deprecated.
At the rate override, add the suppress warning at the rate function interface at the rate safe variable
arguments.
So these are used on Java code, but there are certain annotation which is used on top of annotations
right.
So this is also known as meta annotation.
Annotation.
So you are putting an annotation over an annotation.
I'll tell you how, but just remember this for now what categories we have.
One is predefined means what Java has already defined.
One is custom which meant which we can create our own predefined also has two.
One is which is used on the Java code which we gonna write it classes, methods etc. and one is meta
annotations which is used over the annotation itself.
Right.
Let's say I have created this annotation.
So this meta annotations can be used on top of it.
Right.
I'll see you.
I'll share you an example and it will get much better.
Clearer.
But just for now, just understand this meta annotation is it is used on annotations and this one is
which is used on Java course classes methods.
But let's go slowly and see one by one each annotation used on Java code.
So I'm first covering this basic.
So we'll first cover this second we will cover this.
And third we will cover this okay.
So annotations used on Java code.
So what I told you that this is a predefined annotations.
So this five annotations already Java has provided us right.
And it is used over classes methods on Java codes which you have.
Right.
So what is the first one.
Deprecated the usage of deprecated class or method or field.
So it's a so let's say you have a particular class A.
Now you want to make sure that whoever using it they should use something.
Let's say class new A this is something new implementation.
And where you are updating all the latest features in this class.
This class is deprecated.
You are not taking any more, uh, requests here.
Hey, I'm using this class.
I am seeing some issue.
Can you fix it in this class?
No, we are having a new class.
So what you can do is you can mark it as deprecated.
Right.
So this will whoever is using this class, they will get a warning.
They will get a warning that this is deprecated.
And you can add a method that the instead of this class A use new a integrate with this rather than
this.
Deprecated.
It so deprecated can be used over a class, method or fields.
Right?
And if anybody is using this deprecated class or deprecated method or deprecated field, they will be
shown with a warning that you are using.
Deprecated.
If any issue comes or if you wanted to expand it, nobody gonna entertain it.
Either use the latest one if provided.
So deprecation generally means no further improvement is happening on this code and use new alternative
method or field instead if available.
So deprecated method can be used over constructor field local variable method package parameter type.
So type is generally in your class interface enum.
So now let's say very basic.
This is my class public class mobile right.
And this is one dummy method which I have created.
I don't want this dummy method to be used by anybody because now I am not, uh, continuous development
happening on this, right?
There is a alternative available so I can mark with this annotation at the rate deprecated.
Now if anybody using this method.
So in this main method I created an object of a mobile.
Now I am trying to access this deprecated method.
Now see here the compiler shows me a warning that hey you are using a deprecated method, right?
It might be possible that if in future you face any issue or you are looking for something, there is
no like it's already deprecated.
Deprecated.
It's no further development is happening on this, right?
So if you expand this warning you will see that deprecation API usage.
So it found that you are using certain deprecated method.
So what happened is this is just a metadata information we added over this method.
And it might be helping the compiler to know that okay if anybody using this method compiler.
So maybe compiler is using reflection and see that okay this method has deprecated annotation.
If yes, show this warning.
Okay.
So this is one of the annotation which is available in predefined in Java.
And you can use like this.
Second is at the rate override.
I don't have to explain this override because we have already used that so many places during inheritance.
Right.
But still let's uh, quickly cover it so that there is no gap.
Right?
So during compile time, it will check that the method should be overridden.
If you have used the at the override method override annotation over a particular method, then what
it will do is it will give a information to the compiler that okay, on this method override is used.
Annotation.
So you have to do is check its parent and see that the same method.
Definition should be there.
So it will check that hey public boolean fly.
This is fly one.
Where is fly one here.
No.
So it is throwing a here.
If you see that it is throwing a compile time error.
Okay.
It can be used over methods.
So where override can be used over methods.
Right.
So you can't use it over class.
No.
It is used over methods.
Similarly we have another called suppress warnings.
Suppress warning.
It will tell compiler to ignore any compile time warnings.
So now here, if you see that I have used deprecated annotation.
Right.
And if anybody is using this deprecated method, they are showing with a warning.
Now sometimes if you feel very, uh, like uh, hey, why I am getting showed this warnings.
Lot of warnings.
I know that I don't want to see this.
So you can suppress this warnings, right?
So here, if you see that, how you can suppress it using this annotation okay.
So this is the same example which I have used.
I have created a mobile class.
And I have this deprecated method inside this annotated with at the rate deprecated.
Now in the main class I am using this deprecated method.
So compiler show me with a warning, but I don't want this warning.
It's very annoying.
So what I did is either I put at the rate suppress warning.
Either I put at the rate suppress warning at the method level.
So I have put deprecation.
So now here if you see that warning gone right.
Now no matter how many deprecated fields classes you're gonna use, you won't see the warning.
Similarly, you can use over the class also.
So now it was specific for this method.
If you used over class it will be for all the methods.
In all the methods you can use deprecated fields, class methods.
You won't see any warning right?
And if you want to suppress all the warnings like deprecation is just one another is let's say unused.
So let's say you have created a method but not used at all.
So it will show that compiler will show a warning that it is not used right.
So you can add one at the rate suppress warning unused.
Right.
So here if you see that if you want to ignore all the warnings, you can use all.
Right.
Suppress warning all.
So generally what happen is uh, like you might be asking like, hey, suppress warning.
How do I know whether I have to use deprecation or deprecation or unused or all or this one?
So like, what is the this thing?
So generally this is a string.
And generally whenever the warning comes up.
Right.
And if you click on top of it it will say that add suppress warning.
As soon as you click that add suppress warning it will add it right.
But Java has provided a list of.
You can check the Oracle docs and that it will provided so many suppressed warnings.
So it's a string.
It was provided so many.
Uh, what are the warnings?
It's possible.
And their respective name, which you can use into the suppressed warnings.
Right.
So you can check that one.
But generally, whenever warning comes, if you want to suppress it, if you click here and it will
you can say that add this annotation.
It will simply add this also.
Okay.
But it's good to know that where you should suppress warnings.
But remember sometimes warnings are good.
It can save you from an exception during runtime, right?
Maybe.
Let's say I'm just saying, for example, let's say you are doing divide by zero five divided by zero.
You know that this is an exception.
This is an exception.
So not a compile time, but maybe a runtime runtime exception comes arithmetic exception.
So whenever you do divide by zero, maybe certain compiler showing you that warning hey you might.
This is a warning you are doing.
Divide by zero.
And if you do suppress all, if you do suppress all, you will not get this warning at all.
And it is possible that during runtime you will get the exception runtime exception, then it's possible.
So try to use this where you are confident that yes, you are ignoring this warning.
Why?
Okay, so where this you can put you can use you can put this suppress warning at the field.
Right field means this one let's say here you have a field string my value.
So this declaration is nothing but a field right member variable methods parameters constructor local
variable and type.
So all this places you can put a suppress warnings.
Okay.
Then we have add the right functional interface.
So at the functional interface we have already covered.
And you might have seen that whenever we want to create any interface as a functional interface we create
we add this annotation.
Right.
Whenever we add this annotation we it we are kind of providing an information to the compiler that this
is a functional interface.
It should have only one abstract method.
Right.
So now here, if you see that when I try to add two abstract method, compiler shows an error, right.
So now you got it right.
It is something kind of we are providing additional information, additional information to the compiler
or JVM or this thing where they are adding certain logic.
Now as soon as I added this annotation.
Now without this annotation this will work fine, but as soon as I added this annotation at the right
function interface and interface compiler, start adding certain logic where it's checked that only
okay, there should be only one abstract method it says to its source compilation error.
Okay, so at the functional interface is whenever you want to restrict interface to have only one abstract
method where it can be used, it can be used over classes or interfaces or enum.
So generally it's used over interfaces.
But we have this type.
I'll tell you about this how we are determining that which annotation can be used.
At what place.
Right.
I'll tell you how.
But remember that at the functional interface interface, what is the visibility for this where we can
apply it at the type right.
So generally type is class interface or enum.
So over interface it has been used.
Okay.
Till now we are clear, right?
At the rate deprecate.
At the rate.
Override at the rate.
Suppress.
Warning at the rate function interface.
Very simple.
Right.
The usage of the annotation.
Now let's understand the safe variable arguments.
So here in the so where this use.
So first of all you have to understand this variable arguments.
So I have already explained what is variable arguments.
If you remember that three dots one right.
That is variable arguments in the variable topic I have already covered the variable arguments.
If you haven't seen, please have a look.
What is variable arguments?
Okay, so this is also nothing but a very very similar to suppress warning.
Very very similar to suppress warning but suppress warning where it is suppress warning at the method
which is having method or constructor, which is having which is accepting variable arguments as a type
parameter type.
Okay, so why it is used?
It is used to suppress heap pollution.
Warning.
Very important right?
I'll tell you what is heap pollution warning or what is heap pollution.
So safe variable arguments annotation.
It is used to suppress heap pollution.
Warning right.
It is used over methods and constructors which has variable arguments as parameter.
So let's say if you have this method print method.
Similarly string a can you use here.
No it doesn't have variable arguments.
So this annotation says that safe variable argument.
So it is used only over the method which have variable arguments.
So either methods and where it can be used.
Method should be either static or final.
Right.
So here if you see that method can be either static or final, then only this annotation can be applied.
Why?
Because if you don't, because you know that static or final method cannot be overridden.
So it's generally you can say that it's it's avoiding.
Try to avoid that.
You can't do a overridden of a method.
Right.
So it is possible that in parent class on method one you have put save where hours annotation and in
child class.
Right.
You have overridden this method.
Now method one and you miss this annotation right?
Then it's possible that whatever the save check you are doing here, you might miss there.
So that's why it says that hey, save this annotation safe variable arguments can only be used over
final or static method.
So.
But in Java nine you can also use it in private method.
So in before Java eight and before.
If you try to put this annotation on private methods, you won't be able.
You will get certain error exception or compilation error.
But in Java nine you can also use on private method because you know that private method also cannot
be overridden.
Right?
So but private method can also have this annotation in Java nine.
Now let's see first understand what is heap pollution.
We are we are saying multiple times that okay.
It is used to suppress heap pollution.
And it is used only for methods which has variable argument as parameter.
What is the link?
What is the link between heap pollution On and variable arguments.
What is the link?
Okay.
So let's first understand what is heap pollution.
Heap pollution is so you know that in we have two type of memory like stack and heap.
So what does heap stores heap stores objects.
Okay.
Now what is heap pollution means you have an object of type A right.
So I have this a object but it stores the reference of object of type B.
Then you can say that your heap is polluted.
Your object is this is your object.
It is of type A, so it should keep a reference of what object type A only right.
But when he get polluted, it is possible that object of type A may be let's say string.
This is your object.
It is storing a reference in heap of let's say integer.
Right.
So this is what known as actually heap pollution.
Object of one type.
Storing the reference of another type object that is known as heap pollution.
And how with variable argument heap pollution is possible.
Let's see.
So I have created one class.
Simple.
I have created one method.
So now here if you see that I have used a variable argument.
Right.
So you know that just for a quick background of this one so that you will get remember let's say if
you have this method and if you have used let's say int three dots a right?
You can even pass like this method.
Zero parameters method with one parameter.
Method with two comma three three parameters.
Right.
So you don't have to create multiple methods like with empty parameters with one parameter one int.
Then with two parameters right.
So internally Java takes care of it and it converts it to array itself.
Okay.
So this variable arguments is you can provide either zero parameter one parameter two parameter three
parameter four parameter any right.
And internally Java will change this variable arguments to an array.
Okay.
So now see how can I do the heap pollution using this.
So now I have created this method.
Now I have created a list of integer, right?
So you can say that array or array of kind of list of integer.
So I can pass so many.
List of integer.
List of integer multiple list of integers.
Right.
So what does it means.
Let's say I have a list A list b list c.
So now in print log values, print log values, even I can pass nothing or even I can pass.
So let's say only a or only a comma b or a comma b comma c.
You can pass this many parameters of what type.
List.
List of integer okay.
So now let's say how I am abusing it here.
So now I have this argument which is of variable argument.
Now I stored it into object array.
You know that object is kind of a parent of all the classes.
So I can simply do this right.
So here my log number list, let's say it is pointing a reference in a heap.
Right.
Let's say it is.
It's a list of integer right.
So let's say I am.
It's having a list of integer somewhere.
So this will also have a list of integers.
So kind of this because this itself integer Java will make it as an array.
I told you that variable arguments internally converted as an array.
So array and an array of what list of integer.
So you might be having a list of integers.
Okay.
So now what I'm doing is first I have a reference into the object.
This one.
So now I am having an object list.
Also, it is pointing again to the same starting of this.
Right now what I am doing is I am creating a list of string.
Now I am creating a list of string adding certain string values.
Now I have added into the object of zero means.
In the first part I have added this string list.
So this is 01234.
So object of zero means this only, which is also has a reference to this one, which is of let's say
having one, 23456 integers string integer values.
So object of zero.
What I have put.
A string value less so now I have replaced it with.
Another which is currently having.
Let's say hello.
Now here, if you see that log number list, it is of what type.
List of integer.
It is of list of integer.
But it is so it is pointing.
So it's a reference.
And generally it should keep all only list of integers only.
But here if you say that it is pointing to a list of string.
So now you know that your heap pollution has done.
Why?
Because of this object.
Because an object you can store a string, you can store integer, you can do anything.
So using of this object and this variable arguments I can do the heap pollution.
Okay.
So generally whenever you are using a variable arguments it will show you a warning right.
If you drill down this warning what it will say is that possible heap pollution from this variable arguments
type.
Maybe it's a false true.
Maybe it's a false warning.
But it just show you that hey, you are accepting a variable argument.
It is possible that heap pollution can happen.
It just give you a warning.
So it just like a warning that double check your code that he pollution should not be happening.
And I told you how he pollution happens here is.
I like in the list of integer I am storing list of string okay so but now let's say so.
This is just an example.
But let's say you are sure that yes heap pollution is not happening and you want to suppress this heap
pollution.
Wondering how you can do is put at the rate save variable arcs annotation so it can be used over the
method or constructor which accepts this variable arguments only right?
And it will avoid or suppress your heap argument.
Heap pollution warning.
Okay, so you got it right.
What is heap pollution and what is the use of safe variable arguments annotation.
Okay.
So these are very simple.
You can say that uh Java already provided where you can use on the code.
Right.
Very simple very straightforward.
What does it mean.
But now let's say talk about little bit meta annotation which is used over another annotations.
Okay.
Annotation used over another annotations which is known as meta annotations.

--- Java Annotations - Part2 | Meta-Annotation (Target, Retention, Documented etc.) ---

Okay annotation used over another annotations, which is known as meta annotations.
Let's say first talk about at target.
So I told you that while we were doing this at the rate override, at the rate deprecated, I told you
write this at the rate deprecated can be used over constructor can be used over field.
Similarly override can be used only over method, not anywhere else.
Suppress warning can be used over field method.
Parameter constructor.
All these places.
So who defines this right?
Who makes sure that what these annotations can be used.
At what place?
That's what target annotation is right.
So now let's say check over override annotation.
Right.
So now till now we have seen that.
Okay.
How you can apply override annotation.
Right.
So now let's say we have a method right.
We have a method on on the method I can write override annotation.
Right.
Now let's see if we go.
If you go drill down this one.
If you go inside this override how override has been written.
This is how it is written, right?
So I have hidden the other annotation because I slowly want to go.
But focus on this at the right target.
Right.
And don't worry about this at the rate interface because this is how we create annotation and which
I will explain you when we are creating a custom annotation.
But notice on this part I have created an annotation override.
I have created an annotation override because Java has already defined it.
So let's say we have an annotation override.
So this is how actually you create an annotation at the rate interface.
Don't confuse it with the interface.
So at the rate interface is used together.
It means whatever the name you are using is this will be.
Now as an treated as annotation.
So I have created one annotation.
Let's say now I want to make sure that where I have to apply this annotation where.
So you have to use at the rate target over this one and tell that what is the element type.
Element type is method.
So means this override can be used over only method.
So similarly safe variable arguments if you see this annotation.
So I have used at the annotation I have used means Java has predefined it.
So.
But let's say for an example that at the rate interface has been there, so means this is how we are
creating the annotation safe variable arguments, but the notice point is.
See?
On this annotation we have put another annotation which is target annotation and tell that where it
can be used.
It can be used over constructor comma method.
So you can only use this argument or apply this annotation over constructors or over method only.
So you got it.
Like whenever we are saying that a particular annotation can be apply at either constructor or method,
or either only type, then I think you got it.
Like how write using this target and why we are calling it as a meta annotation and like annotation
over annotation.
See override is an annotation.
I have created an annotation override using this at the interface keyword.
I have created an annotation override.
Now I am using at the rate target this annotation over this.
Right.
So at where I am using over annotation.
So annotation over annotation.
So at what all the elements type possible.
So element type can be type.
So type is your over the class you can use interface.
You can use enum.
You can use field.
You know that field right.
When you create a class let's say this is your field a right the declaration of a variable method.
You already know that method parameter.
Inside a method you have parameter right?
Let's say string a.
So this is nothing but the parameter.
So there also you can use it constructor.
You can use it local variable.
You can use it inside a method you have local variable and so on the local variables.
Also you can use it Annotation type.
So now see this.
What is mean by annotation type.
So here for let's say save where our annotation.
What is the element type I am using constructor and method.
So constructor and method.
So means this annotation can be used over constructor and method.
But if you see that if you go inside at the rate target, because this annotation at the rate target
is used over another annotation.
So it should have annotation type.
Let's see this okay.
So let's say that I have gone over um let's say uh what's that save arguments.
So this is the annotation which Java has already created using at the rate interface.
Now here if you see what is the target, where it can be used constructor or method.
Now if you go inside this annotation how this annotation has been created.
So Java has created at the rate interface and created this target as an annotation.
But if you see its target safe argument, safe variable argument can be used over constructor method.
But this annotation target annotation can be used over annotation type.
That's what all metadata.
All meta annotations which we are saying that annotation over annotation.
So they might be having annotation as a type means you can apply this.
Whatever the annotations you are creating you can apply it over annotations also.
Right.
So if I say that element type dot annotation type means I can start even applying save variable over
another annotations also.
Right.
So I will gonna make safe variable save variable argument as a metadata.
Meta annotation.
Okay you got it.
Right.
So any annotation which you want to make, meta annotation means you want to apply this annotation over
an annotation.
Another annotation use annotation type.
Right.
And you can see that you can.
So I have created one annotation Java has created one annotation.
So you can applying this annotation above this right.
So you got it right.
What is the use of target.
Similarly you you can apply on the package and type parameter.
Right.
So you know that generic type this t.
So on this also you can apply the.
annotation if you have used that one type parameter.
And similarly there is something called type underscore use.
So you can also have element type dot type underscore use.
So if you are, if you have created any annotation and if you have defined like where it can be used
let's say type use.
So it is available only in Java eight feature.
And it allows you to use annotation at all the places where type can be declared.
Let's say you can define type like this list of string.
So wherever the type you can define, you can also put annotation before it also list.
You can put your annotation right and string.
So this is nothing but a type like so string integer what type it is.
So you can add annotation before it.
Also type use wherever the type is in use.
You can apply the annotation.
You can use the annotation.
Right.
So you got it.
What is the use of.
Add the right target.
Add the right target is used to tell where the annotation can be applied over a method, over a field,
over a parameter, etc., right?
Similarly, there is one more meta annotation which is at the rate retention, right?
So now first see is that it will at the rate retention tells that how the annotation will be stored
in Java.
So there are three type of retention policy.
One is source.
So source is that annotation will be discarded by the compiler itself.
And it will not be recorded in dot class files itself.
So you know that whatever the dot Java file you have written after that, after the compilation.
What class will be having what file dot class and then JVM runs this one.
So if you have annotation as dot source right then it will not come into dot class file.
Also after compilation it will not come into dot class.
Okay I'll tell you the example.
Also let's say override one.
Let's see this override one okay.
Uh yeah.
This is the override one.
So here if you see that what is the retention.
So what is the target where it can use apply over only methods.
So this override annotation you know that how this is an annotation at the rate interface.
So we have make this as an annotation.
Now retention is a meta annotation because I am using it over an annotation.
So what is the retention policy I'm using source.
So what does it mean that this source annotation.
So now let's say this is a class.
And inside this class I have this method.
And I have put this annotation.
This is my dot Java file.
Eagle dot Java.
Now when I do compile and I got dot class file eagle dot class here.
If you see that at the rate override is missing.
Right.
Because I have used retention policy as source means.
Till where this it will get stored.
Like I don't want to have this annotation in dot class itself.
So annotation will be discarded by the compiler itself after using it, and it will not be recorded
in the dot class file.
Similarly, retention policies dot class.
Dot class is like annotation will be recorded in dot class files but will be ignored by the JVM at runtime.
You can't.
So if you have a retention policy as class, you can't access it at runtime.
Right.
You can't use reflection because reflection happens at runtime.
So but in dot class file you would be able to see it.
It will be used.
It will be recorded into the dot class file, but it will be ignored by the JVM at runtime.
Similarly, retention policies runtime means it will be recorded in dot class file.
Plus it will be available during runtime.
Also using reflection you can do the reflection also.
Let's see an example.
So you know this safe variable argument annotation.
So this annotation is with preceded with at the rate interface.
So means this is an annotation which is predefined in Java.
Now just focus on this retention.
This one.
So what is the retention I have put runtime.
time.
So when I have put a runtime right.
And let's say this is the usage, I am using it.
I have created one class and on a particular method I am using this annotation.
Now if I do compilation of this because it's a runtime right?
This is runtime, so means it will record it in dot class file plus available at JVM also.
So check its dot class file here if you see that dot class files.
Also this annotation is recorded.
Okay.
Let me show you the an example of this one of runtime again.
But I am creating my own custom annotation now instead of using the I am now showing you you can write
your own custom annotation, but we will go in depth more.
But just have a look at it focusing on this one.
So now I am creating my custom annotation preceded with add the annotation.
So at the rate interface is something which will whatever the name you will give now, it will be treated
as an annotation.
Okay.
What is the retention I have put?
Retention I have put is runtime means I should be able to do the reflection.
Usage of reflection because it is available runtime JVM and what is the target I have put to my annotation
is type means.
I can apply this annotation over class.
Okay, so now let's say I have created one class simple class.
Test class.
I am using my annotation over top of it using at the rate right.
So this is the annotation name I have created.
I am using this annotation over the class right.
So now here see it is runtime.
So now I am.
So now let's say my code is running.
Uh so in the main.
So now if you know the reflection like I have already explained in the previous video, you need to
use dot get class.
So this is one of the way out of three right?
So for this test class I'm creating an object and taking out dot get class object and taking out the
annotation.
So this is a metadata.
Now I'm accessing all the metadata of this class and fetching okay.
Return the annotation type.
This does it has or not I'm just printing.
So if you don't know reflection, if you haven't seen the previous video, uh please have a look.
Otherwise it would be little bit confusing what I'm doing here.
Otherwise, if you have seen this, you should know that this is just one way of fetching the dot.
Get class and using the dot get you can access the metadata.
There could be many metadata.
So annotation is one of them.
So I'm doing get annotation.
So here if you see this is how you access the annotation.
So I am doing dot get class I get a class object for this one and doing get annotation.
Hey, does this class have this annotation?
I've given the name.
So what is the output?
Yes.
Something has come up.
This is the annotation it has.
So now here, if you see that when the code is running, when I run this code at runtime itself, it
is able to find this annotation.
But if I have not put retention runtime.
See?
Now I have missed this runtime annotation.
I applied the annotation at this class.
Now I am using running the same class.
So take this class, get its class object, read its metadata, get annotation.
This does it has this annotation or not?
Null.
Right.
Why?
Because I haven't put the retention of it.
This annotation is not available to at runtime when the program runs.
right?
So JVM don't know about it.
And also I don't have a retention policy like a class also, so it will not be into the dot class file
also of it.
So you don't.
So you got it right.
What is the usage of at the rate retention.
So you can use it over an another annotation.
That's why it is called meta annotation.
And if you go inside retention also what would be the target type over the annotation annotation type.
That's why we are able to use it over an annotation right.
So this is the retention type annotation.
Its target is annotation type.
We are using it over another annotation.
Okay.
So clear similarly is at the rate documented.
So this is one more meta annotation.
So you know that by default annotation are ignored when Java documentation is generated.
Okay.
Just have this example.
Let's say override okay.
So in the override one this is the override annotation.
So here if you see that at the rate documented is not present at the rate documented is not present
okay.
So now in this class I am on this method I have put override.
Now I am generating a Java doc for this.
I am generating the Java doc for this.
So generating a Java doc first I'll tell you it's just a tool to create a Java doc like this.
So let's say if you are using IntelliJ or eclipse.
So from the tools you can do generate Java docs right.
So it will generate a Java docs for you.
And you can share with anybody else that yes these are the it will kind of a documentation which you
can generate and share.
So now when I generated a Java doc because at override annotation this is an annotation doesn't have
at the rate documented.
So if you see that there is no whatever the method you have create public void fly.
Public void fly.
This one does.
It has an override flag.
Does it have at the override flag?
No, because annotations are ignored when Java documentation is generated.
But if you want if you want to create it, let's say in the safe variable arguments, this is present.
So when in the method I have used this and generated a Java doc of it here you can see that.
It is coming in the Java docs.
Okay, so at the rate documented, says that if you want your annotations to be shown into the Java
documentation, so also use it in Java documentation is nothing but it's there are tools which help
you to generate the Java docs.
IntelliJ eclipse has inbuilt.
So you can generate the Java document.
So it would be like this right.
It's like uh you can say that now you can share with anybody and they can understand your class better
okay.
What is the methods what they what is the modifier type.
And all these things okay.
Another is at the rate inherited.
So by default annotations applied on a parent class are not available to a child classes.
Right.
So just say this example.
So now for showing the example demo purpose I am creating my own annotation.
So I have created my own my custom annotation write, and to create an annotation you know that you
have to use at the right interface keyword.
So now I have created my own annotation and I have to use it over a particular class or interface.
So I have defined a target type where I can apply this.
Also I want that during runtime.
Also I should be able to access this.
So I have defined a retention policy also.
Now I want that okay.
My child class should also be able to access.
So I want to inherit this.
So on whatever class I will annotate it.
Its child class should be able to access it.
So let's say I have provide at the rate inherited annotation.
So now see this example.
I have created a parent class basic class, but put this annotation over the class.
So over the class I can use it because I have a target type as type.
Okay, now I have created a child class Us from this parent class, which extends the parent class.
But here, if you see that I haven't put the my custom annotation child class doesn't have it.
But if I access the annotations or access the metadata for it.
So new child class dot get class.
So first I get its class object getting the annotation for on this class.
Hey do you have this annotation present?
Get annotation this it return the annotation even though child doesn't have it.
Why?
Because this annotation, which I have created, it has at the rate inherited.
Similarly.
Now after that, just for testing purpose.
Whatever the same example, the annotation which I have created now I have removed this, now I have
removed this inherited now the same.
I have a parent class with annotation.
I have a child class, no annotation.
Now I run the same code new child class dot get class.
So I get a class object for this taking out its metadata.
Annotation information.
Get annotation.
Do you have this annotation null?
Why?
Because now by default this annotations are not inherited to a child class.
If you want you have to put inherited.
Okay.
Clear.
Now there is something called repeatable.
Repeatable okay.
Again very important one.
So check this one.
It allows to use the same annotation more than one at same place.
Just see this.
Is it possible like you are creating a class.
You want to mark it as deprecated.
Can you do two times?
Add the deprecated.
No.
Repetition is not allowed, right?
But there are certain cases where you want repetition.
I'll tell you one example, but this feature is available in Java eight.
Repeatable, right?
So now let's see this one example.
So I am creating my own annotation.
What is the name of the annotation I have used.
Category.
And I have defined it as an annotation as at the rate interface.
That's why category is now considered as annotation.
Okay.
Now just don't worry about this.
I will explain you while custom annotation declaration.
So now I have creation a one annotation.
Now here if you see where this I have, I can use this annotation over the class or interface or enum.
And it will be available during runtime also.
But I haven't used repeatable till yet.
So now let's say I am creating one class eagle.
I want to have this category.
That eagle category.
Is that it?
It is a bird.
It is a living thing.
Or it it would be a carnivorous also.
So in all these categories eagle generally present.
So I want to give a category to this class.
So now I am putting at the category because this is the annotation which I created.
And I have created one here.
Member annotation member providing a name as bird.
Let's say this is just a metadata information, right?
So during runtime I might be having uh, apart from this annotation, if I wanted to have add some more
information, I can add more variables like this.
Or you can say that members like this and provide the values.
So now let's say one category I want to give eagle as a bird, but I want to give another category as
an living thing also.
So can I use two at the rate category?
No, this is not allowed.
Two times repetition is not allowed.
But in Java eight you can using repetitive.
But how this.
So the same thing I am creating another category annotation.
I am creating an annotation with the name category.
This is my custom.
I am creating my own.
And I have annotated with at the rate repeatable right.
And this is known as container.
Okay I'll tell you how.
But with this repeatable now I am using it and providing its container class.
So container class also we have right.
So container class because let's say you are creating three times category category.
Category category.
So you are making kind of an array.
Array of category.
So we have to create a container right.
So now this category I am storing it into this container categories dot class.
So I have created an annotation categories.
And it is just a array of this one category values.
Okay.
So now here see it one more time.
What we have done here is so this two things is needed.
This is step one.
In the step one whatever the annotation you want to repeat you have to you have to use at the rate repeatable
annotation on top of it first.
And when you use a repeatable annotation you have to provide the container like who will contain this
like you are creating three times four times.
Right.
So it's kind of an array.
Internally it will store in a particular container.
So we have to define one container class.
So categories I have created.
So this is now step two where you are creating a container annotation.
So I am creating another annotation categories.
Right.
And what it has it has an array of an annotation array of this values okay.
Now on an Eagle method or an Eagle class I can use multiple categories.
Annotation at the category name equals to bird right.
So name equals to bird.
You want certain it's just considered it's kind of a similar to variable but generally it is known as
annotation member.
But it's very very so see in look alike It's look like a method, right?
We are using this, right?
But it's.
It is how we define a member.
Annotation member.
But it's very, very similar to a variable.
So for this annotation if you want certain information like a key this is key.
This is value kind of this.
So name equals to bird.
So you provide like this.
So it's a string you want to store right.
So string.
So string what is the key value.
You can say that name.
And you have to define like this.
So similarly category name I want to put is living thing.
Living thing it will put.
Another category I want to give is carnivorous.
It will put this.
So three it will now put into this container categories.
So categories have the list of this what you have three now created.
So for this categories what key is now here.
So here it would say that it will now holding a type of categories.
Right.
So it is an array of category.
And this value would be stored here.
This is the array array of this.
Okay.
Now here if you see that you can access also how you can access this.
On an Eagle class.
So new Eagle dot get class.
So new Eagle I got a class object for this one.
Get annotation by type.
I have what annotation I am trying to fetch category dot class it.
What it will return is it will return all the.
So there because it might be possible we have 3 or 4.
So it will return all.
So you have to catch it in array.
So you are fetching it for category class.
So you have to catch it in Category array because there can be more.
There can be repeatable.
Right.
And now you can iterate over each one, each category and print its name.
I am printing its name.
Bird living thing.
Carnivorous right.
So this is just a simple example how I am using it.
But you can add more validation on top of it okay.
If it has particular name, do something right.
But the main point is you understand this repeatable or not, right?
In Java eight only this annotation is available.
Without this, you can't repeat your annotation on a particular place, right?
If you have to repeat it, remember it's a two step.
One is whatever the annotation you want to repeat on top of it.
Use repeatable meta annotation, right?
And provide one container class.
Container class should have an array of this one.
Right.
And now you can use it like this.
This is not mandatory.
This is just for example I have put you don't have to define it if you don't want this like so.
It just like an example I wanted to put that you can use uh provide more elements also for more information.
But you can also have simple have a category only at the right category.
Then you don't need this name.
Right.
But this you needed it.
Why.
Because you are storing this right.
Array of this array of this.
Right.
So this is how repetition is happening.
So this is how.
So now last topic is user defined on custom annotation.
So till now you have seen that we are using what Java has given us.
And maybe in mid I have shown you with an example where we have created an annotation by ourself.
So we can create our own annotation using keyword at the rate interface.
Right.
Don't get confused with the normal interface.
So let's say creating an annotation with empty body.
So now here if you see that I am creating my custom annotation and I have preceded with at the rate
interface.
Right.
So now this I have created one simple annotation.
Right.
Now here, if you see that I am using it over a class.
But if you have defined it exactly restricted where to use it like over only a method.
Over only a field.
Then you have to add more information like target, right?
Currently this annotation will not be available during runtime.
So you have to provide a retention policy.
Currently, this annotation must not have any documentation.
If you generate you have to provide documented.
Okay.
So those you can add.
But what the purpose I wanted to show you how to create an annotation.
So you can create an annotation like this at the rate interface.
And you can use it right now you can add more and more, uh, meta annotation and start using it.
You might already know it.
How?
Right.
Creating an annotation with a method.
It's more like a field, right?
It's generally known as uh, annotation member also.
So here if you see that the example which I have given, let's say I'm creating an annotation, my custom
annotation proceeded with at the interface.
So this is now considered as an annotation.
I wanted to add certain more information which is like a annotation member Amber.
So it looked like a method.
So type data type the name of the field or name of the member.
And then this opening and closing parenthesis with an empty.
So no parameters.
You should add it here right.
No parameters it accepts.
Okay.
So this is how you add a member.
So no parameter no body.
You can't have like noun defined.
Start defining it.
No okay.
Return type is restricted to either primitive or string primitive.
And you know eight primitive types right.
So you can either use primitive class.
It's not like a class I have created a class bird.
And then you can see an object.
No you know right dot class one.
That class you can use okay a string enum or another annotation you can use.
So if you see the above example, we are already using another annotation already.
This is another annotation, right?
Or you can use array of this type.
Array of primitives or array of class.
Array of string.
Array of enum.
Array of annotation.
And in the table you are seeing we are using array of annotation.
Okay, so this is how you create and how you use it.
Let's say on this particular class I'm using it my annotation my at the rate my custom annotation.
Now I just want to add certain metadata.
That name is.
So it's like a key and value I'm putting testing.
Okay.
So you can have more field.
Also let's say int val.
So you can add another like comma int equals to two something or not.
Sorry.
Uh, well, what are the key?
Your name, Val, equals to two.
So you can add more metadata information to your class or methods and all.
Another is you can also add default value to this member.
So the same I have created one annotation proceeded with at the rate interface I want to create one
member uh with an uh type is string, and the key name I want to give is name, but I want to have a
default value is.
Hello.
Now here.
If you see that on this class I am putting at the annotation, but not giving the value for this annotation
member name equals to something.
SJ no, I am not giving anything.
Even I can do it.
Then what would be the value set for name is SJ.
But if I'm not giving it like this.
If I'm only keeping it like this.
What default value it will get set with.
Hello.
Right.
So even you can assign a default value to this field also or member annotation member.
Also like this.
Default what value.
Okay.
So I have covered everything in annotations which we generally use day to day.
And from the interview perspective also what all they can ask.
So this is very important.
Meta annotations.
This is you already know very simple day to day.
We have already used it.
Very simple custom annotation.
You gonna use it a lot in the real programming also in the company also.
Okay guys.
So this is all about it.
And sorry for little bit lengthy video I wanted to cover in one video.
If you have any doubt, any doubt, please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
I will reach out to you as soon as possible.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
Happy weekend.

--- Exception Handling in Java with Examples ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in Java we are going to do another important topic exception handling.
Right.
And before even starting I just wanted to ask you please comment down in the comment that are you doing
practicing with hands or not or just watching videos?
I want anyone who is watching the series.
Please, please, please practice with your hand.
Then only you will get otherwise things looks very easy, but as soon as you will practice you will
get lot of more doubts.
Ask me lot of questions.
Okay guys, so please comment down whether you are practicing with the.
After watching the video, are you practicing with your hand or not?
Okay, so let's start with the exception handling.
So what is it okay.
So as the name says exception handling.
So first we have to understand what is exception actually okay.
So let's see this in a simple term which I have written.
It's an event that occurs during the execution of the program.
So, you know.
Right.
What is program?
Program is a set of instructions.
Right.
So now when you are running or executing each instruction one by one, suddenly a certain event comes
which during the execution of the program which disrupt your program normal flow.
Right.
So your program, when it is running it is doing a performing a particular set of instruction, but
certainly certain event happen which breaks the normal flow.
Now it will not go below it.
Something happen.
So this is known as exception happens which disrupt your program normal flow.
It creates the exception object.
So whenever any exceptions happen our runtime system creates an exception object.
Okay.
And that object have certain information.
What are the information it has.
It has one like what is the exception type.
So there are different types of exception.
I will tell you what all the different type of exception.
So it tells us what is the type of exception.
What is the message why it is failed.
Like there might be some message right.
For this uh issue comes what is the message?
What is the exception type plus the stack trace.
What is the stack trace?
I will tell you.
So runtime system uses this exception object.
The exception object has this information.
So runtime system uses this exception object and find the class which can handle it.
So let's take this as an example.
So this is the start of the program.
So your program start from here main.
So it calls it calls method one.
Method one, method two, method two calls method three and method three.
There is certain exceptions come here in this method.
Now when this exceptions happen, what will happen?
An exception object will be created.
An exception object will have this certain information.
I will show you how it gonna looks like which has type message stack trace.
Right.
So just assume that when an exception comes internally, an exception object will get created and runtime
system.
Use this exception object and find the class which can handle it.
Now exception object.
So now first it will check at method three itself.
Hey method three can you handle this exception.
Let's say if no it can't handle it.
So it goes and check to the previous the caller who called this method.
So method three was called by method two.
So it will check method two.
Hey method two can you handle the exception which I got?
If no.
Method two also cannot get.
So it goes back the caller of the method two.
So method one has called method two.
So it will ask hey method one, can you handle the exception which we got.
If no again it will go back to the caller and it will check.
Hey method one hey main, can you handle the exception if no.
Ultimately, if no one can handle the exception, runtime system will terminate the program abruptly
and print the stack trace.
So this is the stack trace right from where the actual problem happens to till the starting point.
Okay.
So now here in this example just look at this example.
This one.
So I have the same example I am doing the coding here.
So I have a main method.
The main method is calling method one right.
So it called method one.
Method one called method two.
Method two calls method three.
And in method three I have done divide by zero, so divide by zero.
It's a runtime exception.
I will tell you what but certain when you run it, it's an issue and when an exception occurs right
it will check.
Hey method three can you handle this exception?
No, it will check method two.
Hey method two I got certain exception.
Can you handle it?
It can't handle it.
It goes to the method one.
Hey method one can you handle the exception?
No, it goes to the main.
Hey main, can you handle the exception?
No.
The runtime system will terminate the program.
So here this is the output.
So it terminates the program and print the stack trace.
So I told you stack trace is nothing.
But from where the error happens till the starting point.
So here in this example error happen at method three.
So method three at line number 18 this is the line number where exception happen.
What is the exception object contain two things.
One is the type of the exception.
So here type of the exception is arithmetic exception plus message message is printing is divide by
zero.
I am trying to do divide by zero.
So it's an arithmetic exception.
Come.
So it's a type.
This is a message.
And this is a stack trace.
So stack trace is just like print the place from where the error start to the start point.
So method three at line 18 error comes after that.
It has been called by method two from line 14.
Then method one from line ten and from main method line six.
So these are the stack trace.
Okay.
So you got it.
Like what is an exception.
Okay.
It breaks your normal flow.
And exception object is created which is given to the runtime system runtime system.
Try to find out which one can handle in the stack trace.
If no, your program will get terminated.
If you able to handle it properly, it's well and good.
We'll see how we will handle it.
Okay, so now in the exception handling we knows what is exception.
But let's go a little bit more deeper.
Let's understand the exception hierarchy.
So you know that in a Java every what is the top most parent class.
Topmost parent class is object right.
So it's child class.
One of the child class is throwable right.
So throwable has two child error and An exception.
Okay.
So this is the hierarchy which you are discussing.
So there are different.
So I told you right.
When an exception object comes there are type.
What is a type of exception.
So there are different types of exception.
I'll tell you what are the different.
So now we are looking at the types different types.
So first understand that there are two type of issues.
One is error.
Second is exception.
Very very important interview question.
Also what is the difference between error and exception.
Okay.
So first of all let's see an hierarchy.
This is the parent of all.
Then its child class is throwable.
Throwable has two child class one is error one is exception.
So error is something which you should not control.
Or you your it is not in your hands itself to be able to control this kind of errors.
So mostly that these are the two of the examples out of memory error stack overflow error.
So generally these are related to JVM issues.
So JVM is out of memory means you know that JVM has memory.
So let's say when memory is heap memory right.
And another memory is stack.
So when when JVM is not able to create any new object inside a heap, heap is totally full, then it
throws out of memory error.
If your stack memory is totally full, it throws a stack overflow error.
So this is not even in your program hand.
This is not even in your hand that you can control it.
So any issues because of JVM that is generally is an error.
And we should not even try to handle this kind of errors.
So one of the examples just see this example I have created a main.
So this is a main class.
Public static void main I am just creating an array of a string and see the length of the array.
I have created two big right and it will.
So these are all objects right.
So array is nothing like a.
So string.
String.
And you know that in a we have a string pool.
So it will go inside the heap.
So it might throws like this.
If you have a very less capacity the size then it will throw out of memory error Java heap space out
of memory Java heap space is gone.
So I have created a huge array which depleted my memory.
I'm not able to create any more memory.
Similarly, stack overflow error is let's say you can it simply just, uh, do a recursion.
Just do recursion infinitely.
Okay, so you know that every time you create a method, method is put into a stack.
So just do recursion in finite infinite recursion.
No break point.
Right.
So recursion recursion.
Ultimately it will put into stack stack stack.
And ultimately you will get stack overflow error.
So generally these are uh to be in short error is generally which is caused by JVM issues.
And we should not generally control it.
Right.
But exception are again something which is respected to our code.
Right.
And we have certain control over them.
Right.
So let's go in more depth of the exception now.
So there are two types of exception.
There are two type of exception.
First unchecked.
Second is checked checked and unchecked exception okay.
Unchecked exception is also known as runtime exception, and checked exception is also known as compile
time exception.
Name should be very clear, right?
Check means compile time.
Exception means the compile time.
Your code itself will not compile if this exception is present.
If this exception is present, checked exception or compile time exception, your code will not compile.
So you know right?
You do Java C whatever your class name, let's say main is your class name main dot Java.
You are trying to compile of your Java class.
It will not even get compiled if checked or compile time exception is not handled properly.
Another is unchecked or runtime exception.
So your code will properly get compiled.
No issues, but when you run the program then your program will fail.
Okay, so unchecked means runtime checked means compile time.
Okay.
So now here if you see that and now now if you if I ask you hey error is what error is checked or unchecked.
Can you put me into a comment section.
Just think I'll give you an answer.
But before that first comment down error is checked or unchecked, right?
So error is your runtime exception which is unchecked because when your program is running and something
is now happening at runtime.
This error comes.
So this is also your unchecked category okay.
Okay.
So now let's go in depth of the runtime exceptions.
So generally if you see that mostly they will be called as a runtime exception rather than unchecked,
they will be called as a runtime exception within an exception.
So first is class cast exception arithmetic exception index out of bound exception.
So there are two array and string null pointer exception.
And this one.
So we will see each one of them right.
But there are 12345.
So there are five categories of runtime exception.
Similarly the compile time exception is something which your compilation even fails that you have to
handle first before you run the program.
So one is class not found.
Exception.
Interrupted exception.
Input output exception file not found.
End of file exception and exception.
Okay.
So this is a very high level of the.
So don't worry about this exception.
We'll go in depth now.
But this is a very high level of the exception hierarchy.
So parent class throwable throwable has two error and exception.
You should know now what is the difference between error and what is the exception.
So exception is something which we can handle right.
And we can handle and make.
Properly handle this and make that our program behaves in a controlled manner.
Like we can control this error so we can catch those handles.
So that's what the topic name is.
Exception handling.
We can handle those exceptions.
Right.
But these errors we can't even handle.
These are not even our control.
And exceptions are of two types runtime and compile time.
Runtime is also known as unchecked.
Compile time is also known as checked, and these are the different types of exception within each category.
Okay, so now let's first go and check your runtime exception.
Okay.
So now runtime exception is these are the exceptions which occurs during runtime.
And compiler is not forcing us to handle them.
It is not forcing us to handle them.
Take this example.
Very simple example I have a main class.
I have one method public static void main.
It is calling method one and method one.
Internally I am throwing one.
I am doing a throw.
So throw is a keyword which is used to throw any exception.
Okay, so throw New arithmetic exception.
So I am throwing arithmetic exception.
Arithmetic exception is a runtime exception.
So runtime exception is compiler is not forcing us to handle them.
So your code will properly compile.
So here if you see that method one is throwing arithmetic exception.
And there is no handling like it's just we have thrown nothing happened.
You just do compile it Java C dot Java it get properly compiled.
You will not get class file and then you will run it.
That time you will face a arithmetic exception.
Okay so read it one more time.
These are the exception which occurs during runtime when you are running the program.
Then it will call method one.
Method one will throw it exception during runtime but compile time.
There is no forcing from the compiler to you that handle this.
Okay.
So here.
Check this.
What is the first type of runtime exception is class cast exception.
So very simple example.
So I have an object val equals to zero.
So this is of integer type.
And since object is a parent of all it can even hold this integer.
Now I am doing a printing simple and this val.
Now I am type casting into what string.
This is integer and I'm typecasting it to what string.
So what error it throws.
Class cast exception Java dot lang dot integer.
Integer cannot be cast to string, right?
It throws an exception.
So it's a class cast exception.
So again here if you see that.
Here if you see that even the class cast exception can come at this time, compiler didn't force you
to handle it.
You just write your normal code, but when you run it, you will face this exception.
Another type of exception is arithmetic exception.
I have already showed you a sample of arithmetic exception by divide by zero.
So this is a very normal class.
I have a main.
I have did five divided by zero.
No issues do compile.
It will compile properly but now run it.
When you run it you will get arithmetic exception.
What is the message?
Divide by zero at this line.
Okay.
What is the third index out of bound exception.
Take this example.
I have created an array of size two.
I have created an array of size two index zero index one of integer type.
Now I am doing System.out.println.
Value three.
So what is the size zero one?
And what I am trying to access is which is not even there, which is not even there.
This size is this index is not there.
Size is only two.
So it will throw that array index out of bound.
You are trying to access which is not in the bound.
Out of bound array.
Okay so this is your array index out of bound exceptions comes in.
Again you are not doing any handling.
You will compile it.
It will work properly.
Similarly with the string I have a string.
Hello I am trying to access this character at.
So this is 01234.
I am trying to access fifth one but size is four.
I am trying to access this character value dot character at five there is nothing.
It's a string index out of bound exception.
Okay, so this is for string.
Similarly we have null pointer exception null pointer exceptions comes.
Let's say I have a string value equals to null.
So for null I am trying to access something.
So well dot character.
So val is not null.
So means ultimately you are doing what null dot character at which is wrong right?
So this Val doesn't have any object reference right.
What you will do dot character at it's null right.
So if any object is null and you are doing its dot anything you are trying to access it.
Anything, right?
It will throw null pointer exception.
Okay, again, your code will compile properly, but when you will run it, it will throw this null
pointer exception.
Then another we have is illegal argument exception number format exception.
Right.
So here if you see this example I am doing integer.parseint.
So let's say if I give string 53 it will work fine because it will convert it to an integer.
It is it will do a pass 53 string.
It will pass.
But I passed wrong ABC.
Now it will try to pass it to an integer.
It won't be able to convert it.
So it throws number format exception for this string ABC okay so this is the number format exception
but still compilation Java.
See there is no issues.
But when you ultimately run this you will get an exception okay.
So you got it right for runtime exception compiler will not force you.
Right.
You can write your normal code, but when you run it, issue might come.
Right.
But now let's see the compile time exception okay.
We will not go through all.
I'll tell you like now why the compile time exception is different and why it is required.
Handling.
So first compile time exception is also known as checked exception.
So here compiler verifies them during compile time of the code and if not handled properly code compilation
will fail very very important.
So compile time exception.
If there is any compile time exception compiler force you to handle it properly, right?
Otherwise compilation will fail.
Now you can ask me like how compiler will force us to handle how we will handle.
Let's see this.
I have written a very simple code main string method one.
Calling this one right main is the class public static void main calling method one inside method one.
Now I am throwing what exception throw is the keyword which is used to throw any exception.
So throw new.
I am creating a new exception of class not found.
Class not found is your compile time exception right?
So here if you see that when I throw arithmetic exception which is runtime, I, I am not doing handling
anything any different.
I am doing, I just throw it.
But when I did now here compile time exception or checked exception now here.
If you see that here you will see a red line means if you do Java C main dot Java, if you try to compile
it.
What exception I got unreported exception class not found must be caught or declared to be thrown.
So now compiler is giving me an error.
Hey, there is a class not found exception.
There is a compile time exception here.
Please catch it or handle it properly.
Right.
So in when we when we use here.
Arithmetic exception.
No exception thrown.
But now when we use compile time exception here like one of the example is class not found.
We we are not able to compile it.
Also it says that hey handle it right now how you can handle it.
So let's try to handle the exception using throws.
So now let's write this the same thing again.
I am creating a class.
Main.
Public static void.
Main method.
Okay, now this method is calling this one.
Now here.
If you see that I am throwing.
This method is throwing class not found exception.
And we know that if we are throwing a compile time exception or checked exception, we have to handle
it.
We have to handle it right.
How we can handle it.
First way is using thrown.
Let's say this class says that hey I don't want to handle it, right.
I don't know how to handle it.
I will leave up to my caller to handle it.
So what it can do is throws it throws this exception.
So what does throws means throws tells that throws threatens that this method, this method so throws
is after it can be used only after a method.
Okay, so what does throws tells that this method might throw this exception or might not.
So please scholar who is the caller for this one?
Method one is main, so please caller you handle it appropriately.
So what does throw?
It means throws tells that this method can throw can generate this kind of exception right.
It can or it cannot.
So it's just a might it's it's always a might right.
So there is a chance that this method can throw this exception.
This exception okay.
So it warned its caller to handle it.
So here if you see that now here I am doing throw this.
Okay, so now error has been removed from here.
Error has been removed from here.
Now where does error put into here.
Because throw says that I have used throws here above this method.
This method right with this method.
Method one.
So it says that yes, method one is allowed to throw this exception.
Right?
I have put it here.
Now method one can throw this exception.
But whoever its caller is it should be able to handle it.
So method one should be able to handle it.
Now how method one should be able to handle it the same thing.
It can also do method one.
So the main method the caller of this method one.
It can also do throw.
I am not handling it.
I am also putting it to my caller.
Right.
You take care of it okay.
And if you start the program right now, if you start the program from first, it will call main.
From main it will call method one, method one and method one.
We got an exception.
So here we have encountered exception right.
So now it will first check.
Will it be able to handle it.
No it says that okay.
It throws.
So it can throw this exception.
So it will check its collar.
Hey can you handle this.
It also says that it hasn't handle it also but it has mentioned that throws okay.
It can also throw it.
So there is no exception here.
It can also throw this.
So it throws this.
Now what will happen is our program will terminate abruptly because it didn't find anyone who can handle
this.
Right.
So this is one way that we can use throw if any exception.
So.
compile time exception is compiler is now forcing you to handle it right.
Either catch it or either throw it.
So now first example which I showed you is using throws.
Okay.
You got it right with this throw one.
So when you throw this means this method is now allowed to throw any exception which you have mentioned
it over here right.
But whatever the caller is now it has to handle it.
If either it will handle it or it will again do throw.
Now let's see.
Handle this using try catch block.
Now let's say that this example see this example.
This is now actual handling.
Throwing is nothing like an actual handling.
It just say that I am just delegating the handling to my caller, right?
So throw says that this method is allowed to throw an error, but the caller has to handle it so it
delegates.
Hey caller, you handle it.
But here in the try catch block, we'll see that how it handles the exception.
This is generally actually the handling.
So take this example.
So I have created a main class.
Public static void main.
It is calling a method one.
In the method one I have thrown the exception which is a class not found is your checked exception.
Compile time exception.
So generally it should have thrown.
It should be either thrown or it should.
It either should be handled how we're handling it.
So here if you see that I am not doing throws.
No so means I am not delegating my handling task to the caller, so means method one only has to handle
it.
Okay, how it will has to handle it using try.
So I have put one try block right.
So this is a try block.
And it has it is used with the cache block also.
So inside this try block you can put your code which can which there is a possibility that you can get
an exception right.
So within this try block I have put my code which can throw an exception.
So I have written a throw new exception.
So I'm throwing an exception.
Now in the catch I can catch this exception type.
So catch is class not found exception.
So I catch it.
So now what will happen is method one is called the try block got initiated.
And when this gut, it throws an exception.
Now it throws an exception.
Now what it will do is hey, is there any catch available which can handle it?
It will say that catch class not found exception.
Yes it match with it.
So it will goes into this catch block.
So it will handle this exception.
Whatever you want to do, whether you want to log it or something or just print a stack trace.
You can change the message or add your message.
You can you can do whatever you want, right?
You can even just simply log it and move forward also.
Okay.
In real coding, when you work in right, there are many scenarios where we do catch.
Uh, let's say any exception type and we just uh, let's say log it.
We do logging and just continue with our coding.
Right.
So now if you see that this is what something known as handling.
I told you, right?
Exception handling.
Give us a way that if any exception comes in our program, we can handle it.
And it gives us an opportunity that we can even execute our normal flow.
Right?
Or if we don't want to execute our normal flow, it gives us the way how we wanted to handle the exception.
Right.
So you got this one right.
This is one is what try catch block is actually so in the try block put all the code which you think
that it might throw an exception.
You can put a catch block.
And in the catch block it will first check if this exception type matches then it will go inside this
catch block.
Okay there is one one.
Another way is just see this one.
So I have created a main class.
I have public static void main.
It is calling a method one.
Method one is throwing the exception.
Now here if you see that try catch block is not there means there is no handling.
And this is your compile time exception.
So since no handling is there and it's a compile time exception means it has to delegate this to its
caller.
So how you will delegate it.
Either you have to either method one has to handle it.
Put a try catch here.
Otherwise using throws it will delegate that to a scholar.
Hey caller you handle it now in the main class I can also put try and I have put all the code which
can throw an exception.
So here method one can throws an exception.
This kind of exception it can come from the method one Okay, so I have a trick and I have a method
all the code which can throw an exception.
If any exception comes I am catching it handling it over here.
If it matches, if it throws class not found exception, it will get matched the type.
Yes.
And I will handle it here okay.
So either you will handle in the same method where the exception happens or where the exception happen,
you will just delegate it to our caller and the lets the caller handle.
Okay.
So you got it right.
Uh, one thing which you should be now clear is difference between runtime exception and compile time
exception.
Very very important right?
In runtime exception compiler is not forcing you to handle it.
So here if you see that I am throwing new arithmetic exception, I am not even using try catch block
or even I am not using throws Nothing.
No, nothing.
So there is no force to me.
When you run the program, then you will face an issue.
But for the compile time, we have to handle it.
Okay.
Either the method has to put the trycatch or either throws it and let the caller able to handle it.
Put a Trycatch.
So handling is happen through.
Handling is happen through what.
Try catch block.
Okay.
We'll go into try catch block more.
But understand that how why it is used where it is used.
Now let's talk about how to handle the exception.
Okay.
We all know that how to handle this try catch block.
So it's like more going in depth.
So there are five keywords which we have to which is very important when handling.
One is try.
We have already called the try block is something inside this you will put the code which can throw
an exception.
Catch.
Catch is something which will have like what is the type of exception, right?
It will catch this exception type and you can in this block you can handle it.
Finally I will tell you what it is used.
Throw throw.
You know right.
So we are using this throw keyword like throw keyword is used to throw any new kind of exception.
So hierarchy is this one right.
There.
So you can throw you can throw any new exception either exception or either class cast exception.
This this this.
So you can't do any like throw new like my main class.
No you can't use any class here with the throw keyword.
With the throw keyword, you have to use this class or within its child class.
Any all this, child class.
This this this this this this this right or this.
So throw keyword is used to kind of throwing the exception exceptions occurs okay.
Then what we have is throws and you know that throws where it use it used with a method.
So here I'm using the throws with a.
I'm using a throws with a method which says that this method can throw this type of exception.
Right.
This method can throw this type of exception.
And it just tells the caller that, hey, you handle this kind of exception.
So be aware that this kind of exception can come.
You are calling method one.
This kind of exception can come, so handle it properly and the caller can handle it through either
trycatch or it itself can throws.
Okay.
So now let's say first using try catch block the try block specify the code which can throw exception.
We have already discussed this try block is followed either by cache block, catch block or finally
block.
So after try block either you can use catch block or you can use after try block.
You can even use finally block.
I'll write.
I'll tell you why finally is used.
But either try, catch, try finally or you can even use try catch.
And after that you can put finally.
Catch block is used to catch all the exception which can be thrown in the try block.
Very important.
This line.
Understand this line.
I am explaining this line with an example.
This.
So this is a class.
This is public static void main.
Just a starting point.
I am calling method one dummy.
See I have put into try catch block means it can throw certain exception.
So method one.
So method one is can throw what type of exception it tells.
Hey caller I can either throw class not found exception or interrupted exception.
So here if you see that it you can give different type of exception using comma separated.
Right.
So now method one has been called by this main.
But method one tells that hey I can throw this two exception.
So you take care of handling them.
So now either main should even throw this or it should handle it.
So now I am handling it through try catch block.
So try.
So when I have put a catch of class not found exception this type if any.
If this type of exception happens within this method right I will handle it there.
Another catch.
So now if you see that we can put multiple cache well we can use multiple catch okay.
So another catch I have put is interrupted exception right.
This type if any.
If an interrupted exception is thrown I will.
This will get catch it up and it will handle it.
Now I have written one more file not found right.
But now here if you see the red line, why red line?
Because catch block can only catch exception which can be thrown by try Tri Block.
In this tri block, what all exception can be thrown.
So method one is throwing only these two.
So nobody is throwing this file.
Not found exception.
So catch cannot even handle it.
So let's say if there is another method I can add method two.
And method two can throw file not found exception.
Then this will work because one.
Method one is throwing this two.
Method two.
Method two is throwing file not found exception.
So it will work.
But current.
Example.
Method one is the only one method which is there in the try block, and it is throwing only these two,
so only these two will work.
Any other exception out of this two will not work.
So that's the line.
Catch block is used to catch all the exception which can be thrown in the try block.
Okay.
Multiple catch block can be used.
So you can use multiple catch class catch one.
Block catch block two.
Similarly, you can add more if that is been thrown by try.
Catch all the exception object.
Now let's see this.
I have created a class main write public static void main.
I am throwing method one.
Calling method one.
So method one either can throw class, not found exception or interrupted exception.
So I put it can throws class, class not found exception or interrupted exception.
So two compile time exception it can throw.
So method one tell its caller that hey you take care of it.
Now main is the one who is calling it.
So now it is taking care of it.
Try so catch.
So first it is catching class not found exception.
So this is like you can say that very very specific.
Pacific.
So it is specifically checking class not found.
Exception class not found.
Exception exactly.
Match.
It will handle it here.
But now let's say I have put now exception.
So now you know that exception is a parent of all runtime and even compile time everything.
So anything of its child class it would be able to find it.
So whether interrupted exception.
So it will say that.
Hey catch.
Is there any interrupted.
No.
Then it goes to the next.
Okay interrupted it's not there, but it's its parent.
So parent can catch its child exception type.
So exception is a parent of this.
So it will handle interrupted exception.
But remember this.
This is wrong.
So here I have done just opposite.
At first I have put very generic exception.
And second, I have put very specific one class not found.
But now here, if you see, let's say if this method one has thrown class not found exception.
Right.
So it throws this class not found exception.
Now caller has to handle it.
So now here if you see that exception would able to catch it.
Why.
Because exception class is a parent of class not found exception.
So this will catch it.
So this one is wrong.
So you will see if you see here it throws a red line here.
Why.
Because it says that already caught above right.
So whenever you are using it are kind of a parent exception.
So use it properly first put very specific.
At last put a very generic.
Or you can say that the parent one.
Okay.
Catch multiple exception in one cache block.
So till now you have seen that we can put multiple cache block cache block one, cache block two.
But we can also do this.
So here if you see that I have put one cache block which can catch multiple exceptions.
Right.
So let's say this cache block is class not found exception the pipe symbol interruptedexception and
the object right.
So if any of this either class not found exception is thrown by method one, method one or interrupted
is thrown.
So it will get caught here and it will be handled here.
If apart from this two, if any other thing happened, it will be get caught into the exception.
Okay.
So now here if you see that we were created two cache block here.
Right.
One for class not found, one for interrupted.
But if you see that their handling is same, you can even create one cache block class not found exception
pipe.
So this is the exception type.
Pipe exception type and then object.
Okay so here it is.
You can catch multiple exception in one catch block also.
So now this is all about the simple try catch block.
So now there are another thing is try catch finally or try finally.
So I told you that right.
So we can use either try then catch then finally.
So finally is always at the end.
So after try catch you can put finally or after try.
Also you can put finally.
So now let's see this.
Finally block can be used after try or after catch block.
Finally block will always very, very important, will always get executed either if you just return
from the try block or from the cache block doesn't matter.
Finally, block will always get executed right?
So no matter if you even do return from the try block, it will get executed for sure.
Okay, so here, uh, let's see this one, this example.
Okay.
So here I have one main method in the main class.
Public static void main.
So I am calling method one.
So in method one it's done properly.
No issue no error happens.
So method one successfully completed.
After that it does return.
So generally control should goes out from here.
But after try I have put a finally block.
And finally block.
We know that no matter what happens, whether try block is success or if there is exception and catch
got invoked inside after the catch.
Also, ultimately before even leaving the method finally will get executed.
And here if you see output inside.
Finally, even though I am doing return from the try also finally get executed.
At most one we can add only one finally block.
So like we can do multiple catch blocks, right?
Catch block one.
Catch block two.
Finally, block can only be one.
We can't have more.
So why it is used.
So these are the mostly used purpose of this.
So you know that we open for reading certain file, we open the stream, but sometime we forget to close
it.
So mostly we use for closing the objects, right?
And adding locks because we know that this method will even if try success.
If not the catch exception got get executed, whatever would be control will come over here.
So we can put a certain generic logic like let's say logging part we can put here, right?
So or we can close the object before even returning sometime.
It happened that you are closing it here.
You open certain things.
You close here.
But sometimes exception happen and you forget to do in the catch so you can put in.
Finally, no matter what happens, finally it will try to close it.
Right?
So just don't worry about opening.
Closing.
You might not be able to catch it because we haven't done a we haven't done file.
File handling.
Right.
So file we can open the stream.
We can read from the data.
So it's just more like a.
So let's say this is your file then this is your code.
What is it's open a stream kind of thing.
And then you can read the data from this stream.
After that you have to close this stream also.
So we'll go into more deeper when we study the file in Java file handling.
But just remember that there are certain piece of code in Java where you open the stream for reading
the data, and once the reading data is completed, you have to close it, right.
Otherwise this will stay open which is not required.
Okay.
So these kind of code can be put in finally, because no matter if any issue comes or somebody forget,
finally block will always get executed.
But there are certain cases when finally not even get executed.
Like what?
Like if any error get happened, like any JVM related issue happen like out of memory stack overflow,
this kind of issue happen.
Then uh, your finally block will not get executed suddenly.
Also, like if your system gets shut down or process is forcefully killed, right?
Then all these cases finally block will not get executed.
Otherwise in all cases, all cases, your finally block will get executed, right?
So see this example.
So I have one main method.
I have a try block.
Inside the try block I have put a method which can throw an exception.
So method one is uh what exception it is throwing class not found exception.
So this is not handling it.
It just tells its caller that you handle it.
So it is handling it.
So it has put a catch.
Same right.
It handles the exception.
And I have put a finally here.
It will do something logging.
So I can't even use catch.
Also it is optional here.
So after try I can also use simple finally also.
So now notice one thing.
Finally is not kind of similar to catching.
So now here if you see that this method throws exception.
So mean throws means this has to handle it.
After try catch somebody has to catch it.
But if you use try.
And finally who is catching this exception.
No one so means it tells its caller that hey whoever the caller of method one, you handle this exception.
So who is the caller of method one this mean?
So it is trying to do try, but is there any catch?
No.
So it is not even handling it also.
So it also has to say throw.
Hey, whoever my caller is, you handle it.
Okay.
So have this different.
If you have a catch you can handle.
If you don't have a catch then you have to delegate the task to your caller itself.
If you don't have any caller, it will program will terminate.
Got it.
But here if you also see this.
So currently I show you this uh, this with a this is your checked exception or compile time exception.
The similar example if I give you with runtime exception.
So main method is called method one.
Method one.
Now let's say I just throw arithmetic exception.
So arithmetic exception is your runtime exception.
Runtime exception.
I told you that compiler do not even force you to handle it, so you have a try block even though you
don't catch it.
You don't have to throw it.
Also, even you don't need this also, but still just for explaining you purpose that.
The it will not force even the caller also to handle it.
There is no throat cut because for runtime exception compiler do not even force it, but it's good to
handle it like how we are handling right?
It's good to handle it.
You can put one cache block arithmetic exception object, do handle it so you can handle it.
But only thing is nobody is forcing you.
But for the compile time it you have been forced.
Okay, now.
So now till now we have seen out of five are keyword try catch finally throw throws we have we you know
try catch finally throws and even throw you know.
Right.
So throw why throw is used throw.
It is used to throw a new exception.
We have already been using it a lot.
So let's say this is my code.
If name is equals dummy.
Let's say in this method I have put one condition.
If name is equals dummy, I want to throw an exception.
How I can throw an exception throw whatever the exception type I want to throw new exception.
So first throw usage is it is used to throw a new exception.
Another is it is used to Rethrow Rethrow the exception.
How you can rethrow the exception.
See this.
So I have created a normal class name.
Public static void main.
It is calling method one.
Method one is throwing the exception.
So this is a checked exception.
So this method has to handle it.
But this is not put trycatch.
So it has to throw the this exception.
So now its caller has to handle it.
So who is the caller.
Main.
It has try catch so it class not found.
This got matched with this one.
So it will go inside this block.
It will go inside this block now.
Now in this block instead of handling it what I did I throw this again right?
I throw this again.
So it is equivalent to now this here I throw the exception right.
So now I already.
So this has first catch the exception.
And after catching the exception it has rethrow it.
So it throw it.
So now when you are throwing it again, means either you have to put handle it.
Try here catch here.
Which is like if you have to put try catch here then why need to.
You need to throw it right.
Doesn't make sense to put try catch here now.
So means you have to delegate this task to your caller also right.
So generally if you have to uh when this use case is right, so you can ask me, right.
Hey, if you have to read through it, why we have even put the catch.
We can simply put throws right.
Why we have put a catch.
So there are many cases where you have to put certain logic here, like logging certain specific.
Right.
So you can do certain specific logic and rethrow it so that when you do debugging you will get a better
understanding.
Right.
So you can do some specific things and you can throw it, and you will delegate the task to the parent
that you handle it.
Whoever the caller is.
So this is how we do a throw.
You can simply throw exception whatever you have.
Catch it.
So this is Rethrow.
So till now we have seen all the exceptions, which is kind of a created one.
Arithmetic and class not found.
And all right.
We can also create our own exceptions.
So creating custom or user defined exception class.
So see this one.
So I am creating my class my custom exception.
I am creating a child of exception.
You can even create it a child of let's say runtime exception right.
Or you can even created a child of very specific, let's say extend uh, Class not found exception.
So what I mean to say is that you can create whatever the child class you wanted to create.
Either you have to create a extended.
So you have an hierarchy, right.
Exception.
So it has a hierarchy right.
Or runtime compile time and runtime.
You have many compile time.
You have many.
So either if you wanted to create a very specific one so you can pick any specific and create extended.
Otherwise you can create your own.
And the child lovers exception you can create your own, which is a child of exception.
So now this is what I have done.
I have created a class, my custom exception.
I have put it as a child of exception, so I have put it into this kind of hierarchy runtime exception
checked exception.
And I have created now this my own.
Okay, so here I am throwing my custom exception here.
Okay.
So string message.
Super message.
So this is my constructor where whatever the message I send, I give it to the super.
Let's see I am going to use this exception.
So okay so now here in the same very similar to your checked exception.
This is also something very similar to it one.
Right.
So my main method is calling method one.
My method one.
Here I am throwing using the throw keyword.
Throw this exception I send some message.
Some issue arise.
Any random message are given.
I am not handling it here.
I put throws.
So this is very similar to checked exception.
Your compile time.
So it's not similar to your runtime.
So you have to handle it either put a try catch block here or delegate it to your parent or the caller
class so it delegate it to this main class.
It has to catch it and handle it right.
So it is very, very similar to in the functionality wise very similar to your checked exception.
Either handle it or delegate it to your parent.
So if you understand this, you should ask yourself like why we need to handle the exception?
Why?
Right.
So let me tell you, there are so much advantage of it.
But there is one disadvantage also, right?
First let's see what is the advantage.
It makes our code clean by separating the error handling code from the regular code.
Right.
Let's see this first line.
Then we'll go to more advantage later.
But first understand this how it will make our code clean.
Say that this is my code.
I have one method which takes an input a school class number.
Let's say class number one.
Class number two.
Class number three.
Something like six.
And I want to know that how many students are present in that class number.
So I have one method let's say get student capacity of class based on this class number.
Let's say I got a number of students.
Then for this number of student I have to create an array.
And after that I am just doing certain override in the name that it's a new value.
So certain random code, but very simple code that whatever the class uh number I will get fifth class.
Fourth class.
What is the student capacity for that class?
And I am creating an array of that much of a string of names of that much.
And I'm just overwriting in the zeroth field that with the new value.
So now you know that there are so many issues can come with it like so.
We have to handle that.
So now let's say that we are doing without exception handling.
I am doing without exception handling now.
So see here we have to have a lot of validations right.
Otherwise.
So school.
So school class number should be if it is greater than zero and less than equals to 12 class then only
my code should run.
So I have put one.
If if I have given let's say here 99, then this is the wrong value.
So in the else part I have to throw this error code minus one.
So now let's say I have passed fifth.
So means it is within this range.
So now I will get the get student capacity of class of fifth.
So now let's say it return zero.
So I have to see that okay, if it is not equals to zero, then only create an array, right?
If it is zero, don't need it.
It's kind of an error.
Like at least there should be some capacity for this class.
How many students can sit.
So I am checking if number of student is not equals to zero.
Then only create a student.
Else throw an exception or not throw an exception.
Else return this error code.
Here I am putting error code equals to minus two.
Let's say okay.
So now here or you can even return it from here.
Also.
Ultimately we are doing is returning the error code only.
So return minus two here.
That also works out okay.
So now let's say if it return properly value that okay 5050 students can sit.
So I have created a 15 student array.
Okay, now I need to check that the names not equals to null and names dot length greater than zero.
Then in the name zero put this thing right.
If any of this condition fails, put return minus three.
So now what?
I wanted to show you that this is your code.
Actual code, or I would say the regular code, but it should work fine.
You have to put so many if else conditions that and you also have to return the error code if any condition
fails, right?
So now here, if you see that your original code which you wanted it get so much big and very, very
difficult to understand.
Now which one is the actual code?
Which one is the meaningful code you wanted to have?
Rest is more like a validation.
If if if else if else.
Right.
So here with exception handling we say that it makes our code clean by separating the error handling
code from the regular code.
How?
I just rewrite this.
The same code with the exception handling.
So the same code which you try to use it first, but I put into a try block.
So there could exception can come right.
Get student capacity of class.
Let's say you are passing here 99.
It might throw an exception right.
So now I'm catching it here.
Let's say if index out of bound exception comes do something.
Otherwise any type of exception comes do something.
So you got the point right?
What I'm trying to say now this is your regular code and all the exception handling part of code which
I am doing here.
If else if else and throw error code and all that You can have it here in the catch part by catching
the respective error and handling it over here.
So now it makes our code more cleaner.
Second thing is if you are using if you are not using exception handling, you have to throw.
You have to cascade this error code to your parent one.
So now let's say your main is calling method one.
Method one is calling method two.
Now let's say any error happens.
So it has to pass the error code.
Hey this is the error code.
Let's say minus ten minus ten.
It will tell that hey this is the error code which I got minus ten.
What to do now?
They will have an understanding.
Okay.
If error code equals to equals to minus ten, do something.
So there.
So here if you see that you have to pass this kind of an error code and all.
So this exception handling this is become easier with the objects.
So now we get an exception object.
What is the exception type.
What is the exception message.
Right.
Even you don't have to pass this.
You don't have to pass return like this.
Here I am returning the error code.
Now you don't have to return this right.
You can if you want to.
If you want your parent to handle it, you can throw it throws throws this whatever the exception you
wanted your parent to handle, they will handle it right.
So see that your code become very clean.
And you can separate the error handling code from your regular code.
Similarly, it allows your program to recover from the error.
So let's say if any try if any catch block happen let's say index out of bound exception happens.
You can do something to correct it, or let's say something and you can even proceed it further.
I'm not saying that if it is a genuine error, you should do so.
I'm just giving an example.
It gives you a chance to recover.
You catch it.
Now you do handling.
If you see that okay, I am able to handle it proper or it's not very serious.
It's okay.
You can just handle it, log it and move forward with the code.
So it allow program to recover from the error.
It allow to us to add more information which support debugging.
I tell you that you can put logging and everything it provide a stack trace.
Stack trace.
What type of exception comes?
What is the message?
What are the line exactly where the exception comes.
So it helps in debugging.
It improves the security by hiding the sensitive information.
So now sometimes what happens is when the exception comes we don't want in the log.
We don't want the put the complete data.
We want to hide something.
P1 data P2 data.
Right.
Which are very, very important.
Datas.
Customer let's say phone number.
We don't want to put into the logs.
So these kind of let's say it helps us to we can even hide this sensitive information and then put a
lock.
So these are certain of the advantages of exception handling.
But remember I told you there is one disadvantage also that exception handling is little expensive.
If stack trace if stack trace is huge, then it is not handle and it is not handle or handle at the
parent class.
So means when exception handling will become expensive.
Now let's say this is method one calling method two calling.
Method three calling.
Let's say it is calling method 100.
Now some exception.
Come here.
Now what Java has to do is right.
It will say that hey method 99, can you handle this?
Can you handle this?
If nobody is handling it goes till here and ultimately terminate the program.
So now here if you see this is an extra overhead.
So this is little expensive right.
But if issue at 100 and here if we handle it properly handle it try catch then it's okay if you are
handling it here itself.
But if you have a huge stack trace then it make our code become expensive or it's a little expensive
to have.
If the stack trace is huge and it is not handled.
And also, one more thing I wanted to tell you, just with a simple example where you can avoid exception
handling.
So let's say this example first.
This this example first I have let's say method.
And I am taking two parameters a and b right.
And and so let's say this one first I'll tell you this one I have a method which taking two parameter
a and b.
So what I am doing is I want to do a divide.
So now I say that hey let's do exception handling with this.
So I put a try block.
I put a val which is an integer a divided by b.
Let's say it is five, a is five, b is let's say zero.
Now you are doing exception handling even though it's a runtime exception.
Yes, but you can still handle it.
Now you are doing a runtime, you are doing an exception handling.
If arithmetic exception comes, value should get set minus one instead of throwing exception instead
of terminating the program.
Right.
So now what will happen is if you send a equals to five, B equals to zero, what will happen?
Value equals to five divided by zero.
It will throw arithmetic exception.
The catch will catch this arithmetic exception.
And what value it will set.
Value equals to minus one.
And it will continue with the flow.
So what value it will return minus one ultimately.
But here if you see that in this use case we can avoid exception handling.
It can simply be doing this.
If b equals to equals to zero then return minus one.
Else divide it and return the value.
So here if you see that what I wanted to tell you that if there are certain cases where we can avoid
this, try catch.
And.
All right.
If that is the case try to avoid it.
Right.
Like in this example you can avoid it simply with this instead of this because this is okay also.
But remember that exception handling is expensive.
If somehow in future this stack trace become huge, like this method is getting called by, this method
is getting called by so many, so many methods.
And let's say if somehow another exception comes which is not handling, then stack trace become huge.
So it's better that if it is a simple and you can just simple with one condition, you can handle it.
Avoid try catch block.
That's just one heads up which I wanted to give you.
Okay guys.
So this is all about exception handling.
I will share the notes in the community section.
I will just update the list.
So.
But do practice out with your hands okay.
And if any doubts let me know in the comment section.
And good night.
Bye.

--- Operators in Java - Part1 | Arithmetic, Relational, Logical, Unary & Assignment ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in Java we are going to do operators in Java right.
So we have used couple of them while doing other previous videos.
Right.
But today in depth we will see like what are the different types of operators we have and see arithmetic
relational.
Many of you already know if you know C++ and all but few operators, which we have to actually focus
more on the bitwise operators and bitwise shift operator, right.
And rest of them would be very, very easy.
You would be able to grasp, uh, as soon as possible.
But I would say that uh, bitwise bitwise shift operator is very important as it might also help you
in solving many DSA problems also.
Okay.
So let's first start with this.
Like what is operator.
So operator is this indicate what action to perform like addition or subtraction.
This one for example five plus three.
So here in this this is the operator.
It tells what action I have to do.
I have to sum this up.
I have to subtract this up I have to multiply this up.
So these which tells which indicate what action we have to do is called operation operator.
And what are the operand, the action which we have to take.
So on which on which item action has to be performed.
Those are known as operand.
So your operand can be variable.
It can be constant.
Also variable means if you have a equals to three b equals to four and you are doing a plus b.
So here these are variables.
These are operands right.
And this is operator.
So we have to do what action do addition on which items these two variables right.
Similarly same example five plus three.
This is your operator and your operand is constant.
Directly we have defined the constant values like five and three.
So these are your operand on which this action has to be taken okay.
So you now clear what is operator.
What is operand and what is expression.
So you might heard like this is the expression.
This is the expression a lot of places lot of if you are reading some blogs or discussing with your
team.
So what is expression is it consists of one or more operand and zero or more operators.
Right.
So you have one or more operand and zero or more operators.
So generally if I say that five plus three into four like plus a, like some something I have.
So this is all combining known as an expression.
So expression consist of one or more operand and zero or more operators Okay, so now we have this basic
thing.
Now let's see what are the categories of operator in Java.
Okay.
So how many categories we have is
123456789
okay.
So now let's first go with the arithmetic operator.
So see this is very very basic arithmetic operators I will not go in depth for this arithmetic operation.
Plus minus divide modulus multiplication.
These are very similar in all the languages.
This is one of the simple class Java class I have written.
Right.
Uh how division works.
So five divided by two I have taken a mod plus minus multiplication.
So this is the output.
You will get five divided by two.
You write right.
Uh two two.
So this is your the answer for this division one.
And this is your for the mod one okay.
So here you got two.
And this is you got one here.
Similarly addition subtraction multiplication you will get it.
So this is very basic one.
So I am skipping it.
But if you have any doubt in this please ping me in the comment section.
Second is relational operators.
So what does relational operator is.
So relational operator compares two operand relation and return either true or false okay.
So it will always return you true and false right.
And what does it compare.
It compares two operand relation right.
Operand can be your constant show.
So five and three.
So there would be some operator.
So it determines this relation right.
Or it can be also operand can also be a variable.
Let's say a b.
There would be some operators which will discuss.
It will tell what is relation.
So here if you see the relational operator What are the different type equals to not equals to greater
than less than greater than equals to less than equals to.
Again very very basic.
You might have used already in your C++ or other language also.
So it's a self explanatory.
But I'll just this just go through this example.
Uh, if you are totally new to this one.
So A is four, B is seven right.
So these are the different relational operator A equals to equals to b.
So this is a relational operator.
Right.
Answer would be the true or false only equals to equals to four is equal to equals to seven.
No.
So it is false a not equals to b.
Yeah four not equals to seven.
True four is greater than seven.
False four is less than seven true.
Like this okay.
So again it's a very simple one.
Go through it once relational operator.
You will easily get it.
But understand that it will always return true or false.
And it compares the relation between two operands.
Then there is something called logical operator.
Logical operator.
What it does is it combines two or more condition and return.
True or false.
Okay.
So it combines two or more condition for example.
So there what are the two types of logical operator and logical and and or logical or.
Okay.
There is something called logical not also I will but are generally some sometimes somewhere you read
they will put it into here.
Not also logical, not also somewhere it also put into unary operator also.
But I find it that logical not is more suited to a unary operator.
I will tell you why, but first let's understand the logical operator.
So these are the two logical operators.
Logical and logical or and what does it do.
It combines two or more condition and return.
True or false?
Let's see an example here.
A is four, B is seven.
So now let's see first logical and.
So this is your logical.
And we are doing.
So what I am doing is look out this condition.
A less than three and a not equals to b.
So what.
First I told you that logical operator combine two condition.
So it is combining this and this condition.
So see this is a again certain check happening.
This is again a certain check happening.
And we are combining it then with the end.
And what ultimately it will return.
It will return ultimately true or false.
Okay.
So I will tell you uh, so a less than three A is four a less than three.
So is it true or false.
This is relational.
Operator.
Right?
So is it true or false?
A less than three.
So this is false.
And and right.
So in and and it's generally let's say like this.
If both are false it would be false.
If one is false one is true it again would be false.
If one is true one is false.
Again it would be false.
If both are true, then only it would be true.
Okay.
So generally that's what and is.
But here we have to understand.
One more thing is as soon as the first one you get as false.
As soon as the first one you get as false, right.
You know that even one of them is false.
So here two are false.
Either one of them is false.
You have to return false.
So the first condition is false.
During the logical end, it will not even compute the second one.
It will directly return false, right?
Let's say for.
In this example, a less than three does A is what four less than three and A not equals to B means
four, not equals to seven.
So four is less than three.
No false.
This will return false.
So we know that in the end condition if any of this condition is false right it return false.
So it will not even compute this part.
It will simply return false.
Right.
So second condition is a greater than three.
So four greater than three and a not equals to b four.
Not equals to b is seven.
So now in this case first is four greater than three true.
So one is true.
Now it has to now evaluate the second one, whether the second one is also true.
If the second one is also true, means it has to return true.
If the second one is come as false, it will return false.
So now in that case, it will evaluate the second one.
So for not equals to seven true.
Both are true true.
So it will return true okay.
Now similarly for the or also for is less than three or for not equals to seven.
Four is less than three false or four not equals to seven.
So now here in the Or case just remember that it is like zero means considered as a false 00011011.
So zero zero is your kind of both are false false.
Even one of them is true.
Return true.
One of them is true is returned true.
Both of them are one return true.
This is what or is.
So here, if you see in that case, if the first one is false, it has to evaluate the second one to
know that the second one is also false or not.
If it is false, then only it will return this.
If the second one is become true, it has to return true, right?
So the first one is false.
Then it it will evaluate the second one for not equals to seven.
This will true.
So ultimately it will return true.
Similarly it's for greater than 3 or 4 not equals to seven for greater than three.
True.
Now one is true in the or one is true true true true.
It output is true.
So it will not evaluate the second one itself.
It will directly return from the here itself.
True.
Okay.
So logical.
Operator.
You got it right.
It combines two or more condition and return.
True or false.
So now let's see say what is unary operator?
Unary operator is known as the operators, which require or work only on single operand single operand.
Right.
So there are 12345 increment decrement unary minus, unary plus, and logical not.
Let's see this example.
Okay.
So here take first increment.
Increment is your plus plus okay.
So now there are two type of increment like so let's say you are doing operand.
You are operand plus plus or plus plus operand.
This one is known as postfix postfix increment.
This one is your known as prefix.
Increment okay.
There is a slight difference in that.
I will tell you how, but understand that what this will do is it increments the value.
How?
Now let's see this one.
So I have kept the value a equals to five.
So operand.
So now unary operator is works only on one operand.
It's not like whatever we have seen relation that a plus b it require two operand a greater than b relational
operator require two operand.
It works only on one operand.
That's why they are known as unary single.
So let's see this increment operator part.
First I am using an example of postfix increment.
So let's say I have done this.
Uh, a is five.
I am doing what a plus plus.
So what does it do.
So first it will return whatever the value it has it will return it and then increment its value a value.
So I am going System.out.println A plus plus.
So first it returns whatever the value A has.
So A has five.
It will return it.
So System.out.println will make print five.
And then it will increment the value of a.
Now value of a become six.
Okay.
Now what happening is I am doing prefix one plus plus a.
So now what does this do.
Is it will first increment the value and then return.
So current value of what is happening six after this first statement.
So now I am doing System.out.println.
Then prefix increment plus plus a.
So six.
First it will increment.
It will plus plus it will become seven and then it will return.
Then it will return.
So it will print seven.
Similarly the for the decrement also.
So current value of a is going as seven.
So Out out dot println a minus minus.
So first it will return.
It's a postfix right.
It will first return the value which is seven and then decrement its value by one.
Then it becomes six here.
So next statement is System.out.println.
And the prefix decrement.
So first it will decrement the value and then return it.
So what is a value now five that will return five okay.
So you understand the increment and decrement order.
So in the both increment and decrement order you have a postfix and prefix okay.
In the postfix first the operand value is written and then its incremented in the prefix.
First operand value is incremented and then return.
Then something there is a logical not operator.
I told you right, log some where you find this logical not also here also inside the logical operator.
But this is a unary.
This is a unary operator means it works with only single operand logical, not operator.
So what does it do is if the value is true, it will make it false.
If the value is false, it will make it true, so it will change it.
So I have one flag which I make it true.
Now I am doing a logical operator.
So this is your logical operator.
Like not okay so I put this before the flag.
So current value of is true.
So what it will change is true to false.
So it will print false right.
So only one operand it works on.
Then we have unary minus you have.
Plus if you put this unary minus above this operand it will change its make it to the negative.
So minus five and similarly unary plus if you add it it will make it positive number again plus five
okay so very simple here.
But understand that unary operator works on single operand.
And these are the five types of unary operators.
Then we have something called assignment operators, like used to assign a new value to the variable.
Right.
So here you can see that we have let's say a equals to b.
This one.
The left hand side one is known as generally variable right here in the assignment.
And this is what known as generally value.
So we are assigning the value to a variable right.
And this is the assignment operator.
So we have different type of assignment operator right.
So generally this is the basic one equals to a equals to five.
So what we are doing is we are assigning the value to a variable a okay.
And whatever we have seen this plus minus divide right.
We can also have a assignment operator with that.
Like like this a equals to.
If you write this a plus five.
Let's say you have defined a equals to five.
Means now you have assigned the five to the A.
Now you can also do this a equals to a plus five.
So or you can say that a equals to a plus four.
Okay.
So now whatever the value of A has five now it will become five plus four nine.
So in the short you can also write it like this A plus equals to four.
This is equivalent to this only a equals to a plus four right.
So this is also an assignment.
You can use this as an assignment also.
So you can do plus minus equals to multiply equals to divide equals to all this operators you can use
with the equals to also.
So it will be simple like this a equals to a.
Whatever the operator you are using here that operator let's say divide.
And what is the value.
Right.
So here it would be short form would be a divide equals to four.
Right.
So this divide equals to will be expanded like this equals to and then a divide by the value.
Okay.
So this is uh here assignment operator.
Just uh, for this one, just have a look at this.
A equals to five.
This is the variable.
So I have first do a normal assignment.
Assign the value of A to a variable.
So now my variable become five.
So I'm printing it this.
Now I'm assigning it again a variable to zero.
So zero now become to a variable.
Now I am doing variable plus equals to a.
So how it would be treated variable equals to variable plus a.
This is how it will be transformed to.
So zero plus a what is five.
So it will print five.
So variable the value.
It now is your five.
Now I am doing variable minus equals to.
So it would be variable equals to variable minus three.
Variable was five five minus three.
It will become two.
Variable value is now two.
Now I am doing variable into equals to how it will be transformed into variable equals to variable into
a which is five.
So variable was two 5 to 10.
Similarly this would be variable equals to variable divided by what is the a 510 divided by two two.
So you got it right.
You can put any variable operator operator like this with the assignment.
And that would how it would be translated to.
Okay.
Now this is very important.
Bitwise operator.

--- Operators in Java - Part2 | Bitwise, Bitwise Shift, Ternary, TypeCheck Operators ---

Now this is very important bitwise operators okay.
So it works on bit level right.
It works on bit.
That is one and zero.
And it is very fast right.
Because processor directly support this one and zero.
So this is very fast.
So these are 12344 type of bit operators bit shift operators I have kept it differently.
So bitwise operator we have bitwise and bitwise or xor and not.
So let me first explain you this how and in the bitwise will work.
So here in the bitwise.
And which is this the same 10011011.
Similarly for bitwise or.
I will take an example 011 will take bitwise XOR which is your this 10011011 okay.
So bitwise n when both are one one, then only it will return one.
For rest of the one, it will return zero.
If one zero it will return zero.
If both are one, it will return one.
Similar to like what we have seen previously right in the bitwise Or, any of one or any.
If any of the bit value is one, it will return one.
Both are so there is one missing right zero zero.
Here we have also 0000 will return zero only.
So zero zero here will return zero only and here it will return one.
In XOR what will happen is Zero zero return zero.
If both are same, then it will return zero.
If one is up and one is down, like one is one and one is zero, it will return one.
One one bit is zero and another bit is one.
It will return one, right.
So this is repetitive 1001 and one one.
Both are same.
It will return zero okay.
So in XOR what we do is if both are same then it will return zero.
If one bit is one and another bit is zero different.
In this case it will return one.
Right.
And there is something called which is.
You will find it very very interesting which is bitwise not I will explain you bitwise not as a separate
after this one because this will uh might confuse you a bit.
So bitwise not.
I will explain you first.
Let's see this 13A equals four b equals to six.
Now we are doing a and b.
So you know that in bitwise how we have stored the value 1248 1632 like this 64 like this.
So four four would be written as 0010.
Like this.
Let's say I have a four bit like this.
Uh, so this is your four.
How your six would be represented.
Four plus 21100.
Now what we are doing is we are doing.
And between them so zero zero is 001 is 011 is 100 is zero.
Right.
So what is this value four.
Okay.
Now similarly we are doing R.
So now let's say if you are doing an R between this we are doing an R between this.
So 00001 is 111 is 100 is zero.
So what is this value.
Four and two is bit set right.
So it is four plus two six.
Okay now let's do XOR.
Simple right.
Bitwise operators.
Now let's do xor in XOR.
What we have seen is if both are same then it's zero.
Otherwise it's
A10000111100.
So what value is set two two.
Okay so these three are simple.
Now let's say that bit not let's understand this very, very importantly because it will solve many
of your bit twice little bit issues which comes in.
So generally this what not will do is bitwise not.
Bitwise not.
What it will do is if you have one zero it will change it to 1 to 0 zero.
It will change it to one.
It looks simple right.
One is changed to zero.
Zero is changed to one.
Now let's say I am doing my A is what.
So now let me first remove this to make a space.
Then I'll explain you this one just a second.
Okay.
So let's start this one bit was not.
Okay.
So what was the a?
A is for what I am trying to do is bitwise not of this one.
So I am doing this.
So now let's see what will happen.
How this minus five has come.
So four would be like how it would be in the bitwise one, two, four, eight, 16, 3264, 128.
Like this.
It goes right.
So four is your 0010.
So see this is plus four right.
This is not minus four correct.
This is what value it has plus four okay.
So now plus four always has this at last is a sign bit.
You already know this right.
You might have worked with the bit the last bit.
This is known as most significant bits and this is known as least significant bit right.
So the left most bit is known as most significant bit.
Then the right most bit is known as least significant bit.
And why it is known as most significant bit.
Because this will tell you whether a number is a positive or a negative, because this is a sign bit.
This is used as a sign bit okay.
Remember that the most significant bit is used as a sign bit.
So when a number is negative, the most significant is one.
When the number is positive the most significant bit is zero.
Okay.
So I think this is the basic which we uh have for the software engineering part.
So but just wanted to remind you that this is what we have right in the bitwise the most significant
bit, if it is one means it's a negative number.
If it is zero means it's a positive number.
Now why we are all discussing for this bitwise not.
Now let's understand this.
So what?
The value of a is plus four like four.
So it's 0010.
I am not writing it as 001.
Right.
Because now the most significant would be your one which is says the negative.
No.
So for it we are denoting plus four.
Right.
So it would be like this okay.
So generally integer would be let's say 32 bit.
So it would be more.
But I'm saying that let's say it's the four bits.
So we will denote it like this.
Now we are doing not of this.
When we are doing not of this, we know that what it will do is it will change 0 to 1, 1 to 0.
So 0 to 1, 0 to 1, 1 to 0, 0 to 1 okay.
So I will get this number.
So now what is this value.
What is this value.
We have to compute this right before computing this.
I'll also tell you that generally not is have this formula minus n plus one where n is the this here
what is the value which we are doing.
So minus four plus one.
So it should be minus five.
So this should be minus five as per the formula for the complement for this are bitwise not right but
how.
So now let's see this 1248.
So here we have 1101.
So I want to find out the decimal number right.
So two zero into two raised to power one into two raised to power two into two.
Raised to power minus three.
Remember that why I am doing minus three?
Because in Java there is nothing like a integer is a signed.
It's a sign.
There is nothing in C++ you might have worked like signed unsigned integer, right?
But in Java there is nothing like an unsigned in the integer part.
So integer can have your positive values.
It can also have your negative values.
So it's a sign.
So in the bits representation of this integer value the most significant bit is one right.
It is one.
And it's an integer which is assigned.
So it has to be taken as a negative.
Because I told you one means -0 means most significant zero is means positive.
Okay.
So that's why we have to take it negative.
So what it comes minus eight plus zero into zero.
Plus two plus one into two.
Raised to power zero one.
So it would be your minus eight plus three minus five.
That's what our formula gives to us also.
Okay so either you can use directly formula.
If somebody asks you right how this, uh value comes right.
You can compute this like this way.
Okay.
Just do a complement and then you can find out the decimal value.
But remember in the Java integer is a sign.
So if the most significant is one you have to use the minus one.
So it's not 012 not three.
It would be minus three.
Okay.
So that is the bitwise not.
And also one more thing is you can you can ask me right.
Hey like how do we identify that minus one.
Is this only 1055.
So minus.
So let's say I have a equals to five.
I want to compute it's minus five.
How we can compute it.
Because when we compute minus five it should be like this only 1011.
So that we can validate that.
Yes minus five is actually 1011 only.
How we can do that.
So you know that to get a negative value we have to do second complement.
We have to find two complement right.
So let's do that.
So this one I have already told you how minus five comes in.
And using this formula.
Also you can use it.
But how we can confirm minus five.
Is actually this what we have come up with 1011.
So now we have to find out the second complement.
So for this 512485 would be your 10104 plus 0415101010101.
So first we have to find out the first complement.
First complement is just switching the 1 to 0 0 to 1.
So I have finding the first complement one become zero zero.
Become one one become zero zero become one.
Second complement is adding plus one to it.
Right.
So 1010 in the first complement plus 11101 right.
This is your minus five.
So to find out a any number negative we have to find out the second complement.
So for five when we found out the second complement what we get 1011 which is equivalent to this 11011.
So and when we compute it with this decimal we got minus five.
So all our computations fits well.
So you got it right whenever you are doing a bitwise not right, you are changing the bit 0 to 1, 1
to 0 and make sure that there is a chance that your positive number can become a negative.
Because integer.
In Java there is nothing like an unsigned.
Unsigned means all positive.
There is nothing.
Integer can also store negative values, so it's a high chance that it might even make your positive
number to a negative.
And what negative number?
Either you can use this formula or you can derive it like this.
The last most significant bit you have to.
If it is one you have to use a negative okay.
So bitwise Not is also clear right.
So this is.
Now let's do this one.
So I think this is clear right.
Bitwise and or not and or XOR and not right.
So you can ask that hey this can bitwise not also can be a unary two.
So because it is also used with a single operand like so A not so used with a single operand.
So it can be come under unary two.
Now let's do a bitwise shift operator.
What does bitwise shift operator do is it is used to shift the bits of a number left to right okay left
or right.
So there are three types left shift right shift unsigned right shift.
But there is nothing like unsigned left shift.
I'll tell you why okay.
So but first let's see this and I'll tell you like how I always keep them.
Remember that.
Which one is left shift which one is right shift because it's sometimes confusing okay.
So just remember this part is.
See where the arrow pointing to arrow pointing to a go left.
Right.
So this is the pointed area.
Just see that where it goes.
So it says that left so means it's a left shift.
And you whatever the bits we will do we will do left to our left.
Similarly for right just see the pointed area.
Don't have to remember this.
Which one left.
Just see where the arrows are pointing to.
Hey go right.
So it's a right shift, right?
And we have to shift the bits to the right hand side for example.
Right a equals to four in bits.
How you will represent it.
00100 okay.
Now I am doing left shift means how much.
How much.
Left shift a left shift one one time I have to left shift.
So means what we have to do is This is your right hand side.
This is your left hand side.
So you have to shift the bit by one.
You have to shift the bit by one.
Right.
So here this zero will come at this place.
So this is currently empty.
This zero will come at this place.
This one come at this place.
Right.
And this zero come at this place.
This zero will get ultimately get discarded right now here in the left shift, the least significant
bit will always be filled with zero.
Always be filled with zero.
Right.
So now your number will become like this.
1248.
So it will become eight.
So it's simply like a multiplication, you are shifting one to the left hand side.
So we have one, two, four, eight, 16, 32.
Right?
So if you are shifting one to the left means you are just multiplying by two, four to the eight, eight
to the 16.
So it was four.
You shift one to the left, it become double eight.
Now I am doing, let's say two times.
Shift A is four.
I am doing two times shift.
So I was a was four.
I am shifting here bringing one to here and then again bringing one to here.
So it will become two time shift.
So four to the eight, eight to the 16 right and the left most significant bit.
And whatever the the places it got empty it will switch it with zero.
Right.
And that's why one of the reason is there is nothing like.
Unsigned left Shift.
Okay.
Why?
Because I told you in a bit.
Only the MSB most significant bit is important.
Which define whether it's a sign or it's, uh, whether define a sign bit, whether it's a positive
or negative.
The least significant bit has no generally, uh, value that whether it would 1 or 0.
If it is one, it's a positive negative.
So this is that's why it is known as least significant bit this.
That's why no most significant bit because it tells because it tells the sign okay.
So whenever we do a left shift the whatever the we move okay.
If it is one we move one to the next one.
But here we will always replace it with zero, right?
For example, you have one.
How one will be represented 1000.
You are doing left shift by let's say two.
This is a a left shift by two.
So first it will move to here.
So it will become one right.
This zero goes here.
This zero will get discarded here it will replace with zero.
Then it will two times right.
It will do one more time.
So it will bring one here.
This zero will become here.
This zero will go here, this will get discarded and this will get filled up with always zero.
So it would be in two times right.
It should be four.
So that's why there is nothing like a unsigned kind of thing.
But in the right shift we have this two.
Right.
I'll also tell you this part.
So now the same example A equals to four right a equals to.
Let's use this space A equals to 2486 ten.
So 40000 okay.
So now in this case what will happen is we are doing a right shift by one.
So now arrow is pointing to the right hand side.
Means we have to move the value to the right okay.
So this will goes like a discarded.
So this will get discarded.
This will go here this will go here.
This will go here.
So 010
this will become zero.
And what value we will put here in the MSB most significant bit, what we will put we will use this.
Right.
We will use this one.
So because this is known as your signed signed right shift.
So whatever the value you have.
So I was shifting plus four right.
So it was zero.
So you have to put zero here.
If it is one over here let's say your value is uh something like for y five what we find out minus five.
What was that 1011.
Right.
1011.
We computed uh, 1011 minus five.
Okay.
So now you are doing it's, uh, let's say this is your a, a right shift by one.
So this will get discarded.
This will get here, here, here.
So this will get discarded at this place.
This value will come at this place.
This value will come one.
So now what will put here.
Okay.
So we will put the most significant bit here because this is your signed right shift.
So it is one.
So it we will always put one also.
Right.
So it will become 1101.
Okay.
But there is something called unsigned.
Unsigned.
Right.
Shift.
Now unsigned right shift.
What it will do is it will no matter whether you have you are shifting this minus five.
Right.
So it will become 101.
And this will become empty no matter if it is a 1 or 0, no matter unsigned right shift will always
fill it with zero.
Okay?
That's the only difference.
Okay, so you got it right.
What is the difference between left shift right shift and in the left shift.
There is nothing like a unsigned part.
Right signed unsigned doesn't matter because the change will happen in the least significant bit and
in the right shift there is one.
Are your signed right shift and unsigned right shift?
Okay.
And when you go to the left you are doing kind of a multiplied by two.
When you are going to the right you are kind of dividing by two.
You are decreasing by 2 to 2.
Okay.
So do practice this.
These two are very, very important.
Now there is something.
One more operator is known as ternary operator.
It mimics the if else condition right.
So let's see this example.
So let's say this is the value a equals to four b equals.
To find you need to find out the maximum value.
How you will do you will do if a greater than B Let's say your max value would be a else.
Max value would be B, right?
So we'll do compare.
If a greater than b yes, then this block will get executed.
Else if A is less than B then this block will get executed.
So ternary operator just mimic this if else part how it has this operator.
So it has this condition over here.
Condition.
This condition if condition.
Question mark.
Like if this is true then this is the expression one.
It will return.
Else.
Else part is denoted by this colon.
Else expression two will get executed.
So now the same thing which I have done in if else right.
Just see this with ternary operator usage a equals to four, B equals to five.
I have to find out the maximum.
So this is the condition first a greater than b for greater than five.
False.
It will return false.
So this will evaluate true or false.
So it is false.
So false means this part will get executed.
So what it will do is it will return this b value to it.
Right.
This will get executed.
So it will.
So B is like five.
So five will get assigned to max value.
Right.
If if you have written like b greater than a b greater than a five.
Greater than four.
Yes.
True.
Yes it is true.
Then which one will get executed?
This one.
Before.
Before this colon.
So we should have been returning B over here.
The maximum one.
So it will get returned.
Okay.
So and we print the value.
The max value will come as five.
So this is very very equivalent to if else condition.
And very very straightforward.
So this value will get assigned to which one is get true.
So this is just nothing but an expression.
Expression can have more than one operands also.
Right.
And zero or more operators also.
Okay.
So this is known as ternary operator.
And the last operator which we have is called type comparison operator.
This is the operator instance of.
So it is used to do the type check whether the particular object is of certain class or not okay.
It can sometime can also be shown under relational operator because it returns true or false only and
between two operand only.
So I will show you how to use it.
So type comparison instance of operator.
So take this example first.
So I have created one parent class and I have created this two childs child class one from this parent
class.
Child class two from this parent class okay.
So now let's say this is the this thing.
So now I am creating one object.
This object has child two object.
So now what I am trying to do is here check this System.out.println.
Does this object instance of this is the keyword operator instance of child class two right?
Yes, it will return true.
Right.
Because this is a type comparison, it will check that this object is of this class type or not?
This object or not?
But if I do object instance of child class one.
No, because this object is part of child class two, so it will return false, right?
Similarly, I can do so this.
Take this example.
I have created one child class one object.
This object.
Right.
And now I am checking.
Hey this child object which I have created.
Is it instance of parent class.
It will return true because even for the child you can.
It's a kind of a parent only, right?
It is of the same.
So this will return true.
This child object is instance of parent class right?
Similarly, if you have a string val you can say that hey Val is an instance of string or not, it will
return true.
But where this instance of very frequently used.
One is this where you have a parent child, right.
And you have to define whether this particular object, which you are getting because parent can hold
an object of any child.
So sometimes you have to find out it is of which child.
And another is when you get an object into this one.
So now here, if you see that object, we know that it's a parent of all the classes.
So I can create an object like I have created a random class object, I have created a class name like
random class created objects, put it under object.
Now I am doing hey, this unknown object is an instance of child class two.
This.
It will return false no?
So that's where it keeps it handy.
Where you you receiving an object of this class type object and then you want it to identify that,
hey, whether I am getting this or which one?
Okay.
Got it.
So these are all the operators.
And now we let we have to see one more important part is the precedence.
Right.
So all this operator.
So this is high priority.
And this is the.
Low priority.
So high priority.
Operator.
So you know that in an expression expression contain multiple operators also.
So which operator to execute first, for example five plus two into three.
What would be the value like.
What would be the value.
So how do we determine because that's where the operator precedence comes in.
So we go with this high priority to low priority okay.
So you go through this table right.
Uh sometimes it's very difficult to remember, like, what is the priority?
So always keep this operators in handy with you.
Like, so that whenever you want it to look out, you can check it out, right?
So here, if you see that the multiplication priority is much higher than the plus one.
So plus is your where this multiplication is this.
So this multiplicative higher priority than additive.
So multiplication will happen first right.
So it will happen like five plus three six.
And then the plus will happen.
Okay.
Now there sometimes will happen is let's say five into two divided by two.
So now here if you see that the into and divide into and divide are at same level same precedence.
Now which one to execute first?
Which one to execute first?
That's where associativity comes into the picture.
So associativity tells.
If two operators have the same precedence, then it's evaluated based on associativity.
Okay, so what is the multiplicative associativity?
It's associativity is left to right.
Okay.
So it will move from left to right.
So this first it found multiply.
So it will compute this ten divided by two.
And then it will move forward.
That's a divide ten divided by two five is the answer.
Okay.
So that's what associativity is.
Associative tells.
If two operators have the same precedent then which one to do the first right.
Then it's evaluated based on its associativity left to right or right to left right.
Similarly, assignment has right to left.
Let's say a equals two b equals to c.
So it's assignment associativity is right to left.
So right to left right to left right.
So that's why.
So C value is assigned to B first.
Then b value is assigned to a.
Okay.
So this is generally the operator precedence.
And uh just wanted to highlight one interview or one not one interview question like so one very very
simple.
Uh, this question like, uh, how do you identify that?
Just let's say I have integer A equals to four.
I'll give you one and I'll give you a one task.
Also, let's say I have put a plus.
Let's say I do plus plus.
Then I will do prefix.
Uh, let's say I do it here plus and let's say I do multiplication and I will do minus minus a and then
do plus a minus minus.
Okay.
So let's say I have this one.
So if you have to compute this one how you will compute it.
So here if you see that the first step would be.
Replace the.
Operand with value.
Okay.
So first a we have to change it to the value.
So let's change it.
A is four plus.
So this is your postfix.
I told you right.
First it will return its value and then will increment.
So this would be for a value has become five plus increment.
First a value and then return.
So five.
It will increment six into minus minus a.
So first it's a prefix.
So, so it will decrement first.
It will become five.
Plus a minus minus.
So first it will return and then decrement.
So what is the value five.
And then it will decrement four okay.
So what is that.
Four plus four plus six into five plus five.
Right now you know right what to do.
So what we have to do is the precedence which is the first precedence.
This.
So four plus four plus 30 plus five.
So it would be uh 35 plus 843.
So 43 is your answer here okay.
So you can also try it out.
And if you print the value of a a value would get printed as four.
Okay.
So I'll give you one.
Can you, uh, give me an answer of S if and x equals to two.
Okay.
Then what would be the output for this.
Let's say I'm printing z equals to plus plus x plus plus x divided by x plus plus minus one.
Okay.
This close this close.
So what iterates value z value is what plus plus x x equals to two plus plus x x plus plus minus one.
So what is its value.
Ping me in the comment section.
Okay so guys this is we have an operator.
This sixth and seven is very very important right.
So practice it.
Any doubt any question please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
Okay team.
Bye.

--- Control Flow Statements | Decision Making, Looping & Branching Statements ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in Java we are going to do control flow statements.
Right.
So control flow statements are of three types.
One is decision making statements where all if if else condition generally comes in.
Second one is your iterative statement where the for loops and the loops which comes into the picture.
And the third one is branching statement where break and continue comes in.
So we'll go further into this one and just remember that, uh, their switch expression is introduced
from Java 12.
Right before that.
If you have a JDK installed of previous version, and if you try to use a switch expression, you might
not be able to use it.
Okay.
So let's further go ahead into decision making statement.
So this is very very little bit straightforward.
Not a very uh hard topic to understand but still, it's good that we will cover everything about it
so that if anybody is new to this one, they have an in-depth knowledge about it.
If you already know some of this thing, please feel free to skip it.
Okay, so decision making statement first.
If then and it is sometimes also known as simple if condition.
So what does it says that if condition is true then if block will get executed.
So let's say this is the simple scenario.
So you have if condition which is always the whatever the expression you will give, it should either
return true or false.
If it is true then this code within this block will get executed, otherwise it will get skipped.
Take this simple example.
Here I have a main class.
Write any name and just a main method.
So I have taken any method.
So this is the main functionality which I wanted to show.
So I have created an integer variable value ten.
And what if condition I have put if value is greater than eight, ten is greater than eight.
It will return true.
So this expression is now converting into true right?
So if value ten is greater than eight true then this block will get executed.
So it will print only get executed when value is greater than eight right.
So it get printed.
Plus after inside this block it will get as a normal flow.
Like whatever the block statement, whatever the code statement after this block will get executed.
So this block will also get executed.
Okay.
So this is simple if there is something called if else.
So it is similar to it.
But also what we have is if condition is true.
If this condition is true then this block will get executed.
Same as earlier.
Here we have else part also.
Else.
If this is false, then run this code block.
Okay.
If condition is true.
If block will get executed.
If condition is false.
If this condition is false, then this code will get else block will get executed.
Okay.
So now let's say here what I have is.
What I have is variable seven.
I am checking condition if seven greater than eight false.
So what will get printed.
Else block.
This code will execute if value is less than or equal to eight less than or equal to eight.
And after that the rest of the code.
Okay.
The third one is if else if ladder.
Later.
Right.
So what?
Here we have is so there we have it contains if statement with multiple or chain of else if statement.
It evaluates the condition from top and goes to the bottom.
And any condition get true the block will get executed.
Okay.
What does it says that if else if letter.
So we have one if statement and we have chain of else if else if else if there could be many else if
right and last one is else okay.
So it's a chain of chain of else if statement.
Right.
And it goes from top to bottom.
So first it check if condition.
If this is true this block will get executed.
If this is false next block.
Else if will get evaluated.
If this is false next else if will get evaluated.
If any of them become true that particular block will get executed if none of the block if none of the
condition elsif, or if condition gets true, the else block will get ultimately get invoked, right?
So else part is, you can say that the if none of the condition get true, then it only get executed.
So for example value is 13.
So first if statement will get evaluated if value equals to equals to one no.
So again.
Now second else if value equals to equals to two no 13 is equals to equals to no.
Then.
So here we are going top to bottom each if else if we are evaluating from value equals to equals to
three.
No.
Then if none of the condition is evaluated what will get executed.
The else part right.
So else part value is 13.
It will print and the rest of the code Okay.
So you can have it.
You can keep it or not keep it.
You can even have just simple if else if else if that's also.
So if you want certain kind of okay.
If none of the condition is matched I need to run certain generic code.
Then you can put else part right.
But it is not mandatory to put.
Then another type of if statement we have is nested.
If statement right it is if else statement within if block or else block.
So you know that we have two block right.
If condition.
Else we have condition.
So within that itself you can also have another if else.
So there can be nested right.
There is no constraint like you can have two level three level.
So just see this is simple example.
So here I have a value which is defined as a 13 integer value if value is greater than eight, true.
So this.
If block will get executed, it will go inside this right.
So this will print value is greater than eight.
So value is greater than eight is got printed.
Now here if you see that this is the nested file.
So within an if condition I have put another if else.
So if value is greater value is less than 15.
Yes 13 is less than 15.
So this if block will get executed because it got true value is greater than eight, but less than 15
value is greater than eight but less than 15 okay.
So once this got printed this block so else block will not get executed.
Because if got executed.
And after that, uh, this rest of the code will get executed.
Okay.
So you see that here?
One if another that I have put another if else you can put more if here inside this.
So there is no you can say that restriction like how many nested if you can have how many nested or
if else you can have right here itself.
You can also put if else inside else you can put if else.
So nested if means if else block within an if else block right.
You can have any number of levels, no control over it.
Okay.
So now there are certain uh things which we have called switch which is little bit, you can say that
more information which we have now.
So we gonna discuss about switch statement switch expression which is latest.
So switch statement.
It is similar to if else if ladder.
So whatever the if else if ladder we have right.
If else if ladder Later if else if else if multiple.
So it is very very similar to it right.
How it is get similar to it.
First don't see this diagram.
First see this syntax first and then we'll see how it is very very similar to this.
So this is the syntax.
So switch is the keyword switch.
We will have an expression here okay.
So we have an expression here.
Then we have different cases.
Case value one.
If expression and value one got matched up this code statement will get executed.
We have used break here.
I'll tell you why it is used okay.
If value one is not matched it will again like if else right later top to bottom.
We will go and check each case case case and whichever case, whichever case value got matched with
an expression, that code block will get executed Turn right and then else if else if later.
What is the default thing?
Generic thing we are using?
Like else, if nothing got matched up, what should get executed?
Similarly, in switch statement we have something called default.
If nothing, no case value is matched up with an expression.
This will get executed.
Okay, so now let's switch.
See this how it's gonna look like.
So here we have the switch expression.
This is our switch expression.
Now we are here matching top to bottom.
We are going.
So first we are matching the expression value.
So expression will always give you one value.
So we will get that value and compare it with case value one.
If that got true.
If it is true we will run the code.
This is the code we have right.
And if you put a break we will get out of the switch.
If you put a break, we will get out of the switch.
But let's say if we don't put a break, what will happen?
Let's say if it is a true, we will execute the code.
If you don't use the break, it will execute the second code also.
Right?
It will evaluate it.
The second one also.
Okay.
So but here we will see that.
Let's see that.
What if it is become false.
So if this expression value is not equals to the case value one.
If it is false what it will do is it will go from top to bottom.
Now match with the second case value okay.
If this case value got matched true it will execute that code.
It will execute its code right.
And after that we will put a break and it will get end of the switch.
Right?
So it goes from all let's say if this is so this is if this is also false, then ultimately let's say
if all the cases has been exhausted finished.
Ultimately if we have used default.
So it will run this, go inside this default one and run the code right.
And we will break it and it goes end of the switch.
So break at default is optional.
If default is used at the end.
Right.
There is no sequencing in the switch that this case should be at top.
This case should be at bottom.
Default should be at last.
There is no sequencing in switch.
Even default can be used at top also.
Right I will show you with all example.
So don't worry about that one.
So.
But first understand that what switch statement it is very to if else if later I think if that is clear,
we can proceed further, like with more different, different examples of switch that why it is very
very similar to if else if ladder you got it like we are going from top to bottom.
Whatever the expression we have, we are going to matching with each use cases and if any of the case
value get matched up, that particular code get executed.
If none of the case value get matched up, we will execute the default one.
Okay.
So now let's see.
And different different examples first right.
So this is one simple example I have taken integer a equals to one integer b equals to two.
This is my switch statement right.
And what is the expression I am using a plus b one plus two.
So it would be like what would be the expression value is three.
So now here I am putting different case.
Case one.
Case two.
Case three.
Default.
So.
Case.
So what is the a plus B is three one plus two right.
So now what it will do is it will first match with the case value one.
If one equals to equals to three.
No it is not.
So it will check this.
Now second case what is the value.
It's two is two equals to equals to three.
No it will goes to the third case.
So this case what is the case value.
We have provided three.
If it three equals to equals to three.
Yes.
Then what.
It will print system dot dot dot print ln a plus b is three.
And now we have done a break.
So as soon as you do a break it will go out of this block.
Right.
So it will print a plus B is three right.
So you see that it is very very similar to if else if ladder part.
So now let's see.
Different.
Different uh, sample also.
Right.
So let's say that.
I am using without break statement.
I told you, right.
What?
I told you that if you don't break it right, it will go.
And to the second case, let's see this case.
How?
So check this out A plus B what is that again three.
So first it check case.
What is the value one.
One is equals to equals to three.
No it will goes to this two is equals to equals to three.
No it will go here three is equals to equals to three.
Yes.
So it will print a plus b is three.
It printed this.
But here if you see that I haven't used the break statement.
So what.
I told you that if the break statement is not used, what it will do is it will just go and execute
the code of the next one.
So here it doesn't break happen.
So what it will do is it will execute this below code also.
System.out.println.
A plus b is for it printed that also right.
So here also I haven't used the break statement.
So what it will do is it will check the next.
So next is nothing but a default.
So it will print a plus B which is nothing but a three.
Okay so you got it.
So why break is important.
So if break is not used what it will do is it will execute the next code statement.
If again next code statement doesn't use the break it will again bottom follow the next code.
Okay.
Let's see one more use case.
So here what I'm doing is.
So till now, whatever the example we have used is use default at last.
And I told that if default is used at last then we don't need optional.
Then we don't need break.
Break is an optional because default is last after that.
Even if you don't break it, there is no code.
But what if default is used before?
Because I told you in switch case there is nothing.
No sequencing, right?
A plus B is three.
So case one not match case two not match case three.
Right.
So case three A plus B is three.
Yes this will get executed a plus B is three will get executed.
Now here.
Do we have a break statement.
No there is no break statement.
This will get executed.
Case four A plus B is four.
This will get executed now.
Here.
Does any other here?
No, nothing.
So now here.
If you see that default is not initiated.
So there is nothing like default will always be get executed at the end.
Nothing.
So case three.
What is the below case?
It has it just run its code.
So case four also doesn't have a break.
So it check.
Hey is there any case or default mentioned below me?
No.
That's all.
It doesn't print anything.
Got it.
So here.
What I wanted to show you that default can be at anywhere.
Cases can be at any sequence.
Doesn't matter.
But remember if you are using default other than at last you have to use break.
It's now it's not optional because if you don't use a break again it will print its bottom one right.
So this is one of the thing which we have to know.
So here I have showed this one a plus B is nine plus 110.
So for each cases first it will evaluate.
Case one does not match two does not match three doesn't match four doesn't match.
So it will look for default.
Okay.
Default.
Found it.
So what it will do is it will print A plus B which is ten.
Then.
See I haven't used break so it will print the next one.
System.out.println a plus b is two a plus b is two.
But here let's see the break and it will go out of this switch.
Now it will not print the below code.
Got it.
Let's see another use case which I wanted to show you for the switch case is that we can combine the
cases also.
For example, this is the like.
I have taken a variable month as an string march.
Right now here I have put a different cases like January case January case February case March.
So all three cases, if any of them is true, then this code will get executed and after that will break
it.
So now you can see that what we are doing is we are clubbing the cases also.
So this is also possible.
So this is one way of clubbing and another way of clubbing is case.
January comma.
February comma.
March like this.
Also you can club it right.
Either you can have in different lines right.
Or either you can have in the same line.
I think I have shown that also.
Yeah.
Case January, February, March.
You can also have in the same line also same thing.
Right.
But what I wanted to show you that you can club the cases if they have a similar code to be run right.
So so March.
March will be like January, February, March.
So yes, it will come true.
So month value is in quarter one.
It will print break.
It will go out of the switch statement.
Right.
So this is similar.
But I just wanted to show you that in a single line also we can do.
So these are all the different ways switch can be used.
But few things we need to take care of this switch right.
First of all two cases cannot have the same value.
We cannot have like case one we cannot have another case one that is not allowed.
Right.
So two cases cannot have the same value.
Uh, your uh, the compiler will not even allow it.
Second, switch expression data type And case value.
Constant data type should be same, right?
What does it mean that here if you see that what I am trying to do is that a plus B what it is integer.
So this should be also an integer.
It can't be like switch.
Let's say I'm looking for certain string.
Let's say march.
I can't use like say case two.
No.
So this is a string expression is a string and case value is integer.
No that is not allowed.
So this is a string.
This should also be a string January.
Right.
So you got it right.
What does it say.
Switch expression data type and the case value.
Data type should be same.
Third the case value should be either literal or constant.
What does it mean?
So now you one thing.
You might have noticed that with the different examples we have used in the expression, we are able
to use the variables.
But can we use variable here?
We can, but those variables should be either constant.
So either we can use literals or constant only at the case right.
For example take this example I have an integer value equals to one right.
Now switch statement I am using an expression two plus one minus two.
Right.
So it's three minus two, which is nothing but a one.
Now here in the case instead of writing like this case one I am using.
variable case value.
So here if you see that compiler has shown me the error right.
Why?
Because in the case what value we can use either literals or constant either use one two, three, four
hard coded constants.
Or if you are wanted to make use of variable, it should be constant.
And in Java how you make a field value constant, you can put a final.
Once you declare a final any variable, once it is initialized, you can't change its value.
So now here, if you see that error is gone now why?
Because now this is constant.
Its value cannot be changed, right?
So in the case the value should be either literal or constant.
Right?
All use cases need not to be handled.
Need not to be handled right.
I'll tell you why this I mentioned.
So here, if you see that a simple example I have used of an enum.
You know that enum is a constant.
That's why I am able to use it here, right?
So let's say I have de as an enum.
Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday.
Friday.
Saturday.
Sunday.
I am using a de enum value as an expression.
I have put one variable put a Friday.
Now I am putting a cases case Monday I have used.
I have used certain code like output value.
I'm assigning it one break Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday.
But here if you see that I haven't put Friday, Saturday or Sunday code.
Also I haven't put the default also.
So what would be the output for this one.
So my expression enum value was Friday.
So it will match for this case Monday.
No.
Tuesday.
No.
Wednesday?
No.
Thursday?
No.
So nothing will get executed.
So what would output?
Value would be zero.
So here what I meant to say is that all use cases need not need to be handled.
So it's not.
So switch statement doesn't force you to put a default right or doesn't force you to like cover all
the use cases.
Nested switch statement is possible so you can put switch within switch also.
So the same example the above which I use.
So here the switch I am using that.
Let's say I put Monday case Monday it will become true output value.
I have assigned it to the one.
Now I put again switch switch.
Now on this output value it has case one.
So output value is one right.
Yes.
Match output value.
It will print this one.
So it will print output value this one.
So it will break.
It will go out of this switch, then it will do break.
It will go out of this switch and then it will execute the statement.
Rest of the code output value.
What is the output value?
I have initialized it here so it would be one.
You got it.
Uh nested switch statement is possible.
Very simple switch within switch you can put.
What is the supported data type.
Very very important.
And sometimes it's an interview question also.
So now one thing you should note is that whatever the examples I have taken.
So these are the only supported database for primitive data types.
We can have integer.
These are the primitive integer short byte character right.
You can also have like see like this.
Also write wrapper types of the above primitive type is also allowed, so for int it would be integer.
And character right.
So for here for this one is enum.
Enum is also allowed.
String is also allowed right.
So for for it so total ten data types are allowed.
Okay.
So you know that string is also a kind of constant right.
Why string is a constant.
Can you tell me like we if we remember we have discussed in that right string pool and all.
You remember this right?
It is immutable.
Enum is already a constant.
I told you in the enum when we discussed, right?
So we know that it's a constant integer short byte character.
All this for primitive data types we can use here in the switch expression here.
So here in the cases anything has to be like constant or literals Literal right literal like c a or
constant one, two, three, or provide a final and use it.
And in the switch, whatever the expression you are going to use, it should be of this out of this
ten data types only, nothing else, no float double nothing.
Right.
Because it generally do comparison equals equals right.
So that's why it generally supports this only okay.
So these are the data types which switch statements support.
Now let us see that.
Another point which you have to remember is return is not possible within switch case.
So here if you see that let's say you have this scenario.
So what we were doing here is let's say in this example see this example.
Yeah this one.
So here we are Having a variable output value zero and we are updating it.
If any of the case condition is true.
But can we do this like this.
So output value can we initialize can switch statement can return certain out of this.
So switch I have taken an integer primitive data type.
It is allowed value okay.
Now it will match the case.
Case value is one.
So case one it become true.
Can I return one here so that this string output value can have this one.
No switch statement.
We can't do return.
So return is not allowed here like this.
So return is not possible within switch case.
And that's where there are two different ways using Case.
N this label and using yield statement.
Okay.
So generally you can say that this is available from Java 12.
If you have a JDK before Java 12 like you might not be able to test this scenarios.
Okay.
So let's understand this case and this arrow label how it helps us with the expression and returning
the value.
So now see this part I have integer value one.
I am using this value.
Code block start.
So value is one.
So it will look for the case.
Case one okay so this got matched.
So now here if you see that I am using case case whatever the value of that case.
So whatever the value of that case.
So arrow option I am using.
So what this arrow will do is it will return.
It will return whatever the data type you are expecting in an expression of this right hand side, the
left hand side of the switch.
Right.
Whatever you are expecting is it will return that one.
So I am expecting the string right.
So this is an expression.
This is switch expression right.
So here this switch is returning an string.
And here it will have this value.
So value is one.
So this case will get true.
And because of this arrow it will return this value right.
And this value data type should be similar to what it is.
Who is getting assigned with this.
Right.
So and one more thing you might have noticed is there is no break statement required.
Right.
Because this arrow will return it from here.
Right?
So that's why there is no break statement required.
So if you see that it is little bit clean also it's very much clean.
You you don't need break break because break using a break here inside a switch.
It's a very error prone.
Sometimes if you forget to put a break it might run the next code block.
So using this arrow it makes sure that you don't need to worry about break.
So it will simply return it from here right.
So what the output value after this it will print.
It will print one string.
Okay.
So few things you have to notice right here which I want to tell Because this is a switch expression
and we are it is returning the value which somebody is getting initialized with.
So it has to cover all possible use cases in switch statement.
What?
I told you that.
There is one right?
All use cases need not to be handled.
And I showed you like we.
I haven't used Friday Saturday, Sunday.
There is no default.
Right.
Because this is a switch statement.
Nobody.
This is not an expression.
No no nobody is getting are catching the value.
And.
All right.
But in the switch expression this variable is getting initialized by the switch.
So all possible use cases need to be handled for this expression.
So I have taken one example the same example Sample value is one switch value.
So.
Case one.
Case two.
Even though here value is one, you know that it will get match for sure, right?
But still I am getting a compilation error.
Why?
What compilation error says that switch expression does not cover all possible input use cases?
How you can fix it?
You have to put default right.
So let's say if this case doesn't match.
If this case doesn't match, what would be the default to be executed?
So all the possible use cases have to be handled.
If you are using enum, then all the enums you have to use or either put use a default.
Okay, so if you're using an expression, make sure that all possible use cases need to be handled right.
And there is no need of using the break.
So another thing is using this arrow.
We cannot have the block of statement.
Right?
Like what I mean to say is that you are doing case one arrow.
You can't have this block.
Now you can have you can't have multiple codes now here.
Right.
It will always return the next statement which you will write.
So how you will.
Because.
Because in the case one there might be a scenario where you have to write certain code logic, right.
And then return the value.
So how it is possible if this with an arrow it is not possible to write a block.
It is with the help of the yield.
The second part yield statement.
So whenever you wanted to have a block and you wanted to return, use a yield.
So here in this case I am putting a string output.
Well this value is getting assigned with switch statement.
Switch value.
It is one, right?
So first thing I have covered all the use cases.
Case one.
Case two.
Case three might be or default right.
So I have covered all the use cases and nothing.
Match default will take care of it.
So case one.
Now I am having an arrow.
It will return it right.
But I have used a block.
Now.
Since I am using a block, I have to return.
I have to use the yield now.
Because now you can write some ten code logic here.
But whatever you want it to return, you can use return it through yield.
So whenever you are using a block in an expression, in an expression, and if you wanted to return,
you have to use yield.
So in the case two I am also using a block.
So I am returning it using yield.
And I put can put a logic here in the default I am not using a block, so I am directly returning from
here.
Only one line, right?
So it will return it from here itself.
Got it.
So that is the way of returning the value from the switch case.
Okay.
So here now we have covered, uh, this decision making statement.
That's the only you can say that little bit uh, more detail.
The next part is very, very simple.
Right here.
Next we have is iterative statement.
So first iterative statement is the for loop.
So in the for loop this is how we have three part.
First initialize the variable.
Second is conditional check.
Third is increment or decrement the variable.
Okay.
So now let's see how it works.
So this is just a class.
This is just a method.
And this is a for loop I have used.
So what is the in the for loop?
This is the keyword for block start.
So what is the first initialization of a variable.
So I have initialized the variable integer value equals to one semicolon right.
Not comma semicolon okay.
Value is assigned.
What is the second part?
Condition check value is less than equal to ten.
True.
If it is true, what will happen?
It will execute the statement right value is equals to one.
One is less than or equals to ten.
True.
So what it will do is it will print the value System.out.println.
Value one.
Print it.
Now it will go and check increment third part increment or decrement of variable.
So I am incrementing well plus plus.
So now.
Well, you become two.
Now it will check the condition again.
Hey, two is less than equals to ten.
True.
If it is true again.
System.out.println.
Well two.
Then again it will check incremented it become three it check the condition again before implementing
the code.
Three is less than equals to ten.
Yes.
So 3456789.
Now it will go to 1010 less than equals to ten.
True it will print ten.
It will increment plus plus 1111 less than or equals to ten.
No it become false.
So this is how the for loop works.
So you can also have multiple for loops nested for loops right.
So this is the two for loops I have used in.
So I have used outer loop.
So this is outer loop.
This is the inner loop.
I have used.
You can put another for loop inside this one.
So for each value of an outer loop, inner loop will get executed completely.
So here I have initialized it x equals to one x equals to one one less than equals to three one less
than equals to three.
True it is true.
Then this will get executed.
Now here, if you see that this whole for loop will get executed y equals to one and y less than equals
to three.
Right.
So this will get executed y.
So y so for x equals to one y1 y2 y3 will get executed.
This for loop will run after it run three times it goes up x plus plus it become two two less than equals
to three.
Yes.
So it will go inside, and then this for loop will get executed again because we are initializing again.
So for x equals to two again y equals to 123 will happen.
Then again x plus plus x equals to three.
Again Y123.
So you got it right for each value of x.
The inner loop will get run every time okay.
So generally this two time for loop is very useful in the 2D matrix.
Scenario 123456789.
So x axis the outer loop.
You can use an x axis right.
And inner loop is y axis.
So for each.
So for each x axis you have to run the y.
So outer one can be your x axis.
Inner one can be your y axis.
So it will print like this.
Okay.
So this is your for loop.
The next one is your while loop.
So while loop is also very very similar it's just a different way of representing the first we initialize
the variable.
Then we check the condition.
And inside this block itself we will increment decremented.
So let's take understand this with an example.
So I have taken initialize the variable at top.
First initialize the variable.
Now I'm checking value less than equals to five.
Yes one less than equal to five.
True.
The code will get executed within this block.
Value plus plus right.
So first it printed one system dot dot print ln one value become plus plus.
So value become two two less than or equals to five.
True it print again.
Then plus plus 345.
So for five it will print again.
And five plus plus six six.
Less than equals to five.
No, it will go out of this block.
Okay.
Then another is do while loop, so do while loop is required when you want to run a loop at least one
time.
So one time loop will run no matter what.
So it is like initialize the variable.
This is the keyword do and then we have a while.
Remember this semicolon at the end.
So let's understand with an example.
Let's say I have initialized the well equals to one.
So do while loop is.
So first do is the keyword block is started.
So now here this code will get executed at least once.
So system dot dot dot println val is one printed val plus plus become two.
So now it will check the condition two less than or equals to five.
If it is true then the block will get executed.
Yes, two is less than or equal to five plus plus become three.
Three less than or equal to five.
Four less than or equals to five.
Plus plus five.
Five.
Less than equals to five.
Yes.
Right then.
Five plus plus six.
Six.
Less than or equal to five.
False.
It will go out.
So difference between do while loop and while loop is that in the while loop first we compare.
If that is true then only we will run.
But in the do while loop, at least one time loop will run, and because the condition check is after
that.
Okay, then there is one more call is for each loop.
So this is generally to iterate over array or collections array or collections.
So next topic we're gonna start with the collections only.
So I'll cover like how to iterate.
And also generate is very simple.
So we will understand with array which we have already covered.
So now let's say I have created this array and I have created an array 12345.
So how I can iterate over it.
So this is known as foreach loop.
So here I have created a for loop.
Right now this is for each.
Don't get mixed it up with normal for loop right.
It's for each.
So variable array I have put array I have put.
So for each value for each value of this array it will this value will get assigned.
So first I am initializing this val with one system dot println val is one.
Then again this loop will get executed till this array or collection is not empty.
It will run like this.
Then it goes to the second R its pointer.
So what is the value two.
So two is getting assigned to.
Well it gets printed then three, then four, then five.
Then once the array is fully iterated empty or the collection we have fully iterated, we have reached
to the end.
Then for loop will become false and it goes out right.
So in the.
For each loop it is used to iterate array or collections, and it will iterate over the elements of
an array or collections.
And it goes like this.
And iterate till the end is reached okay.
The last one is the branching statement in control flow statement, where we have two part break and
continue.
So this is mostly used with the loop.
So whenever we are doing a loop.
This branching statement can be used.
So here if you see that I am taking a very simple example.
First of break statement.
So I have taken a for loop for I have initializes the variable variable equals to one.
The second part is condition check one is less than equals to ten.
True.
So as per the code it should go inside this code block.
So val equals to equals to three.
No val is currently one.
So this block will not get executed.
System.out.println one.
Get executed.
So now it will get incremented and condition will check again two is less than or equals to ten.
Yes.
Now the code will get executed.
I have a check.
If two equals to equals to three.
No I have printed two now plus plus three.
Three is less than or equals to ten.
Yes.
Now it will go inside.
Three is equals to equals to three.
This if condition become true.
Now what I am doing break.
So now when I do a break it will go out of this for loop.
The immediate for loop.
What I mean to say the immediate for loop.
For example I have used two for loop and I have used the break.
So here if you see that it will get out of this immediate for loop.
So immediate for loop is this one.
So it will go out of this for loop.
But still it is inside this for loop right.
It is still inside this for loop.
Right.
So this for loop will still be running only it will break this for loop.
Okay.
So that's what the usage of break.
So what break will do is it will break your loop.
So whenever it will find out a break inside a for loop.
What it will do is it will break whatever the rest of the condition it might have to run.
Otherwise, if break is not there, what it will do, it will.
It will print 123456789 ten.
So after but at value when it was three.
If it is true, it we have done the break.
So it only print one, two and rest of the code.
It breaks, it goes out.
Right.
So that is one of the break statement and another is continue.
So continue does the opposite kind of thing generally.
So here if you see that what continue will do, it will not break the for loop.
It will not break the for loop, it will not exit.
But what it will do is it will skip that value the further iteration of that value.
For example, value equals to one value less than equals to ten value plus plus.
So in general it has to print 123456789 ten.
Right.
But I have put one code here.
If value equals to equals to three, continue.
So for the one it printed because one is equals to equals to three.
No.
So it printed plus plus two.
Two less than equals to ten.
True.
But this code will not be true.
So it just printed this.
So two will get printed two plus.
Plus what it will become three.
Three less than equals to ten.
True.
Then this if condition three equals to equals to three.
True.
Now it will do continue.
So what it what continue will do is it will go and say that.
Hey now incremented further don't proceed the further statement.
So for three the next of the code block, whatever it has it will not get executed.
It will just skip it and do plus plus.
So it will become four for less than equals to ten.
Yes four equals to equals to three.
Now it will print four.
So here if you see that three got skipped.
So the output 12456789 ten.
So what continued will do is continue will skip that particular value and just do increment plus plus
right.
But it will not break the for loop.
What break will do is it will just go out of the for loop itself.
Okay.
So these are very simple part like I would say that just try it out once right.
But uh this is certain new part switch expression.
So just uh, have uh, hands on practice on this once.
But this is generally what our control flow statements are, right?
And those who are from C++ background might be they find it very easy because C++ also has mostly the
same logic.
Seems okay guys.
Okay guys.
Any doubt, any question?
Please feel free to ping me on the comment and let's discuss.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Collections - Hierarchy | Iterable Interface | Collection vs Collections ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today in Java we are going to do Java collection framework.
Very very important.
So without wasting time let's start it.
So what is Java collection framework.
Right.
So first thing is it was added in Java version 1.2 right.
So this Java collection framework has two parts like let's first understand what is collection.
Collection is nothing but a group of objects right.
Which are also known as group of elements okay.
So you know like array we create an array int array and let's say a and then we add 1234.
This is also a collection right.
It's a collection of integer.
So collection is nothing but a group of objects in which package it is present.
It is present in Java dot util dot package.
Right.
So here if you see that in this example list is one of the collection, and if you go inside that it
is available in Java dot util package, okay.
And it is available from when.
So if you see this collection that is available since 1.2 okay.
So what is framework then.
So we understand the collection.
What is framework.
So framework is something which provide us the architecture to manage this group of objects.
Right.
So it provides already an architecture.
So you know that there are lot of classes, interfaces, methods, functionality already built in in
the Java.
Right.
And they are all clubbed together.
All these collections are clubbed together.
Because I am going to tell you about all this collection framework.
Right.
Which who is the parent, who is the child and all these things.
So those combined together is known as framework.
Right.
So it provides the architecture to manage this group of objects like you can add it, update it, delete,
search etc. anything on this group.
You don't have to write anything new, right?
To support certain thing.
Everything is built in.
So that's what is known as collection framework.
Okay.
And if you want certain something to be added new, you know that framework is something which is done
all the ground job.
And on top of that you can build something on your own also.
So that's why it has collection framework means it is a group of elements and it is providing you a
lot of functionality already built in as a framework.
And you can use that framework also to build your own also if required.
But generally everything is present and mostly all the requirement you wanted.
It should already be present.
Okay.
Why do we need a Java collection framework.
So this is very important question.
Why do we need Java collection framework.
So before I told you that it was added in Java version 1.2 right.
So before Java version 1.2 there is already an array vector hash table.
So prior to GCF, GCF, I mean since Java collection framework.
So prior to Java collection framework we already have array vector tables.
I told you an array.
So there is a vector.
So see don't worry about this.
What is array.
What is vector.
Hash tables.
Array.
You already know vector and all I will tell you because here also we have a vector.
So I will give you a proper clear definition of what is vector and all.
But for now assume that it's just a type of a collection.
So before this collection framework we already have this collection.
But then why we need this framework to be into the picture.
So let me tell you with this example let's see this example and then understand the problem.
What is the requirement of the collection framework.
So I have created a simple main class simple method.
So this is I am creating an array.
So I have created an integer array of what size of four.
Okay now I am inserting an element in an array.
So how I am inserting this array of zero equals to one.
Now if you want to read the element which is at index zero, how you will read it?
Array of zero.
This is how you read it.
So this is how you write it.
This is how you read it in the array.
Now let's see about the vector.
How you will read and write into the vector vector integer.
So this is how you create a vector.
Okay.
So it's a vector of integer right.
So you kind of you created a collection okay.
Now you are inserting an element.
So how you are writing or inserting an element into the vector dot add how you get it dot get.
So this is how you read.
So one thing you should notice that whether it's an array or whether it's a vector, whether it's hash
table, there is a different way of writing.
Reading, writing reading of depending upon the different collection.
Okay, so there is nothing like a common and it's become very difficult to remember the method which
you have to use.
Okay.
So that's where the problem which I mentioned problem is there is no common interface.
There is no common interface.
So it's difficult to remember the method for each for array.
This is how you read it.
For vector you need this is how you read it.
Dot get zero or get dot get one dot get two.
For array you need like this.
Maybe for hash table you need to do something like this or another.
So you got the problem for different collection, you need to understand or need.
You need to remember the different way to write or different way to fetch.
So that is one of the bottleneck.
Which collection framework has removed it?
How?
I'll tell you how, but that is Java collection frameworks comes into the picture to make our life easy.
And this is the hierarchy present.
Now I'll tell you how this problem will be resolved.
But this is the hierarchy of the Java collection framework.
Okay.
So these are the all the.
So this light blue is your interface.
And this purple one is your this pink one is your concrete class.
Okay.
So now here if you see that first who is the parent interface.
It writable it writable right.
collection.
This is also an interface.
So this is also an interface right.
So it extends from this okay.
So now let's say what advantage this collection framework is doing here.
Just concentrate on this first pink one.
So here if you see that priority queue array queue linked list ArrayList.
Vector stack trees Hashset linked Hashset.
They are all child of what collection and collection is ultimately child of iterable.
Okay, so now let's say if for read there is one method like get right and for right or insert.
Let's say there is method called dot put or put.
So now no matter what you are using, whether you're using vector, whether you are using ArrayList,
whether you are using linked list, priority queue has set tree set.
No matter what you are using, You don't have to remember the method name and okay for Hashset.
I need to use this method to insert I for vector.
I need to use this method to insert or read no because it.
Since it's an interface, it will.
It has exposed certain methods, let's say get and put and all are the child classes of this collection
only.
So they have to implement that only okay.
So all you have to worry about that.
How what is the use case to use the priority queue when it is used how it will work.
So now you now you see that instead of remembering the methods, now you should be more focusing on
your code that which one to pick based upon your need, right?
So let's say for example, what I mean to say the need is stack.
I'm just giving you a stack is let's say when you insert it like this one.
Then second item goes here.
Third item is on top of it.
Fourth item is on top of it.
So this is how insertion happens.
And when you remove it it remove from the top.
So first four will be removed.
Then three then two then one okay.
Similarly there is something called q.
This is the q.
So here insertion would be like 12345.
Right.
And if you are removing it if from the first one one then first will remove, second will remove.
So what I mean to say is that every collection is kind of or you can say that unique in its requirement
based upon the requirement, you have to particularly select a collection, but you don't have to remember
that, okay, for ArrayList I have to do for reading the element I have to use get for insertion.
I used to do put now what to do for stack.
For stack.
Also the same thing because the parent is same.
Interface is same.
Got it.
So this is how collection is solving.
So you can say that in if an interview if somebody asks that why collection framework is required.
So one of the you can answer this one.
We have a collection before right.
But this is one of the problem which happened that there is no common interface.
And because of that it is very difficult to remember the method.
Right.
With this example you can explain okay.
So now we know that why we need Java collection framework.
Now let's see this little bit hierarchy one more time.
Okay.
So now let me explain you the hierarchy.
Okay.
So see this hierarchy.
So we have two type of collection.
One is this which is a parent is irritable and all are its child and another is map.
So map is not a child of irritable.
Okay.
So these are the two set of collections.
And we will cover all.
We will cover all this part, all this uh, this pink one.
Right.
We will cover all this concrete classes.
So now let's see this.
So this is your parent or root irritable.
So irritable is added in Java 1.5 right.
Till Java 1.2 this was added collection.
And this all below.
It also added as a Java 1.2 only irritable was added in Java 1.5.
Okay so but I'll tell you like before it irritable.
What are the challenges and why it was added?
Okay.
But first.
Now see that collection is extending This iterable interface.
Okay, so you already know that if you are following the series, that interface one, right?
If another interface two has to extend or this capability of interface one, what it has to do, it
has to do extend.
Okay.
So collection is extending the iterable collection has three childs.
Or you can say that again an interface which is extending from the collection Q list and set.
And similarly there are certain concrete classes.
Right.
And there are certain more interfaces which is doing an extent.
Okay.
So now let's go through first iterable.
Okay.
Let's first go through iterable.
Why treatable is used iterable is used to traverse the collection.
It is used to traverse the collection.
So here, if you see that we have a collection, what are the collection?
Priority queue.
Array.
Queue.
Linked list.
Array.
List.
Vector stack.
These are all your collection.
So iterable helps in what it helps you in traversing it.
Okay.
Below are the methods which are frequently used in the iterable.
Okay.
So here if you see that first one is iterator method.
Second one is for each method.
So iterator method was available in Java 1.5.
For each method is available in Java 1.8 okay.
So we'll look at both.
So first look at iterator.
So in the iterator it returns the iterator object which provide below method to iterate the collection
okay.
So let's understand this with an example.
Sample.
So I have created a class, right?
I have created a class and a simple method.
Now first I am creating a collection.
Let's say I am creating a ArrayList.
I am creating an ArrayList collection.
So I have created a list of integer equals to new ArrayList.
Right?
And you already know that interface variable can hold an object of a child one.
So I am holding a list of integer equals to new ArrayList.
So I have created an object of a collection ArrayList and I added a value 1234.
I have added four values.
Okay, now I want to iterate it how you can iterate it, right?
So first method of iterating is using the iterator which is available in iterable interface.
So you know that list array list is a child of list.
List is a child of collection.
Collection is a child of iterable.
So iterable has this method iterator.
So now first I have used values this values iterator.
So what it will do.
This will return the iterator object iterator object.
It will return.
So it will give me an iterator object.
Now after I get the iterator object, what iterator object has certain methods?
It has these three methods has next.
What has next tell you it returns true if there are more elements in the collection.
Next returns the next element in the iteration.
Remove.
Remove the last element returned by the iterator.
So let's see this.
So I have four elements in the queue.
One.
234.
Okay.
This is values.
Okay.
So now I have got an iterator values dot iterator.
Okay so now I told you that first I will use Hasnext method.
If there are more elements in the collection it will return true.
So I have used this loop.
While there are more elements in the collection.
Iterator dot Hasnext.
Is there any more element?
So currently it is at this point, yes.
Because we haven't started.
Right?
We haven't started iterating.
Yes, there are more elements which has not been iterated.
So it will return true.
If it returns true, it will go inside and it will say that iterator dot next.
So what next will do returns the next element in the iteration.
So what's the next element.
This.
So it will return one right.
It will return one.
System.out.println.
It will print one okay.
Then if value equals to equals to three no currently it's one.
So it goes again while value iterator dot has next.
So currently we are here has next is it has more value after one.
Yes two is still there.
So it will return true goes next.
Then I'm using value iterator dot next.
So it will return the next value.
What is that two System.out.println.
It will return two value equals to equals to three.
No.
Again check has next.
Yes.
Still two more are unprocessed.
Then it will do dot next.
So it will do dot next.
So it will return three.
System.out.println.
Value three.
If value equals to equals to three.
Yes.
What I am doing is iterator dot remove.
So now it is removing the last element return.
Last element return was three only.
So it will remove it from the list.
Okay.
Then again while loop iterator dot has next.
Yes four is still has to be iterated so it will return true iterator dot next.
So my iterator goes here System.out.println.
Value.
So value is four.
Printed value equals to equals to three.
No.
So now again value iterator dot has.
Next.
No nothing is there now.
So it will return false.
It goes out finish.
So now here if you see that from this list I have removed the third item while iterating.
So now can we check.
So now I am using the enhanced for loop.
We have already seen this before, right?
So I am iterating over the list values.
Okay.
So for each value I am printing.
So what will it print?
It will print one two and four.
Three is already removed from the list one two and four three is already removed.
So you know that.
Now you know that we can use iterator which is present into iterable, right?
This method we can use which will return you an object of an iterator object.
And in this object there are three methods which you can use it to iterate it or remove it also.
Okay.
And if you want a simple iteration like this is also another way.
So this is the first approach using iterator using iterator.
Second approach is using enhanced for loop using enhanced for loop.
So here if you see that in this is treatable.
It says that implementing this interface allows an object to be the target of for each loop.
So now here, if you see that we are doing nothing but a for each loop.
Right.
So any.
Any collection which is a child of iterable.
They can be accessed using for each loop also.
So here you can see that for each loop I am doing.
So this is also the second way.
Third way is using for each method for each method which is available in Java 1.8.
Okay.
So what it does it it iterate the collection using lambda expression.
I have already explained the lambda expression in the previous video, right?
If you have not seen it, please first check it.
So lambda expression is called for each element in the collection.
How so?
Now I am using the foreach method.
Okay so now values.
Okay so here the values dot foreach.
So I am calling the foreach method right.
Now here if you see that in the for each method what it is doing.
So this is the for each method which is present into the iterable.
Okay.
So now here if you see what is the parameter in for each consumer.
And if you recall it, I have already told you that there is already an inbuilt functional interface.
So here if you see that consumer is one of the functional interface inbuilt.
Okay.
So it has this method abstract method which we have to which we can make use of lambda expression here.
Right.
So that's what I am doing now.
So values dot for each.
And inside the parameter which is a functional interface I can make use of lambda expression.
Okay.
So I have given the expression here.
Okay.
So now inside this method what it does is for each value.
So this what our object is calling.
So values is the one which is calling right.
So this represent this values.
So it is like this.
Now for each value it is calling the lambda expression for each values.
So this is our this is the lambda expression which get invoked for each value which are present inside
this.
Because here if you see it is doing for each loop on this.
So this is the values on which it is will run.
Okay.
So here in the consumer it is accepting one as a parameter.
So this is I have added okay.
So it's a functional interface I am using the lambda expression and I am just doing System.out.println.
So whatever the value, I get it here, I just print it again.
If you are thinking that you are getting confused in lambda expression, please check the previous video,
right?
Because uh, if you are not seeing the lambda expression, it would be difficult to explain because
again, itself in itself is a big topic, right?
That's why I covered in a separate video.
But understand this.
The for each method is available in Java 1.8 because it is making use of functional interface.
So values dot for each.
Internally, it will iterate over each value of a list and calling the expression functional interface
abstract method.
And this is the expression it will get invoked for each one okay.
So this is the consumer only one parameter it is expecting.
So I passed one parameter and printing that and what parameter it is returning inside the method.
It is returning this value t only, which is nothing but a iterating over the values.
This values.
First it will return one two and then four.
Three is already removed from the list, right?
Previously.
So 124.
So you got it.
There are three ways to iterate the collection.
First is using iterator.
Iterator will return an iterator object, and in the iterator object there are three methods which we
can use it.
So for iteration actually you need only two.
Third one is just to remove it.
So otherwise you need only hasnext and next second one is for each loop normal which we use it.
Third one is using for each method which uses lambda expression which is available in Java 1.8.
Okay, so now you can ask me a question.
Hey iterator, you are saying that iterator is added into Java 1.5, but collection is already present
in Java 1.2.
Then how we use to iterate before, like how we used to iterate.
So see here.
So here inside the collection let's go to the collection class.
Inside the collection there was already one it iterator iterator method.
There are already one iterator method.
So it just you can say that for convenience they have added one interface here.
They have added one interface here and exposed all the iterable methods here in this one.
Earlier each collection has the iterator right.
So iterator class this this one.
This iterator object is already present in Java 1.2.
And it is present with each collection.
It is present here with here.
But they just added the iterator interface and exposed it here.
All the kind of iteration like Java 1.8.
This was exposed in Java 1.8.
So that's why they added one interface iterable all the previously.
What are the methods available for?
Iterator has also been added here.
Plus they added what are the additional they wanted to add for Java 1.8 okay.
So it's like nothing like only in Java 1.5 we are having the uh, this this thing only iterator is in
Java 1.5.
Iterator object is already present into Java 1.2 also, but it is present under collection.
But now it is also present under iterable.
Okay, so now you know what is the use of iterator.
It is used to traverse the collection and these are the ways to traverse the collections.
Okay.
Now let's come to the second one collection this part okay.
So.
Collection.
You already know that it represents the group of objects or group of elements.
It's an interface which provide method to work on group of objects.
So this is the method.
This is the interface which provide lot of methods which ultimate the concrete collections classes have
to implement and get put.
So many methods are generally exposed here, right.
Which ultimately get implemented by each other each and everyone collection okay.
So it provide a method to work on the group of objects.
Below are the most common used method which are implemented by its child class like ArrayList Zstack.
So these are all the methods which are present in the collection which are frequently used okay.
So one is size.
It is available in Java 1.2 itself.
So what does size is size?
Return the total number of elements present in the collection.
Okay.
So let's say this is the collection.
I have 1234.
What is the size?
It will return.
Four is empty.
Used to check if collection is empty or has certain value.
Return true or false.
Okay, so let's say this is the collection.
See if I check if C is empty or not C is not empty.
It has certain value.
Contains used to search an element in the collection.
I will show you an example of each one, but just understand this.
Contain is used to search an element whether the collection has that element or not.
If it contains, it will return true.
If not, it will return false.
Two array.
So it converts the collection to an array, and this method is generally used to insert an element into
the collection.
Remove.
Used to remove an element from the collection.
Action.
Add all use to insert one collection into the another collection.
Remove all.
Remove all the elements from the collections which are present in the collection passed in the parameter.
So in parameter, whatever the collection you will give me, I will remove all the elements of that
one from the my collection which I'm working on.
We'll see an example clear.
It will remove all the elements from the collection.
It will clear your collection then equals used to check if two collections are equal or not.
This is super important.
Stream and parallel stream.
This is available in Java 1.8.
Java eight write stream provide an effective way to work with collection, filtering, processing data
searching.
It will do that okay and I will cover it separate in a separate video like how the stream works proper,
right?
So in the below example I will explain all the methods.
But for stream I will explain after once we have complete.
All right.
Priority queue.
Queue, linked list and all.
Then with that examples I will explain you the stream one.
Okay, because this is super important, I will make a separate video for the stream only okay.
And then iterator.
As I told you, that iterator method was already present into Java 1.2.
Only iterable interface was added, but iterable object was there.
So you can also use it to iterate.
Now let's see this example.
Simple example.
It's just like all the methods I have used here.
So that's why it is big.
So first I have created a list.
I have created a list new ArrayList.
I added three items two three, four.
So now let's say I have added two, three and four.
So first thing let's see the size values.
I'm checking the size method.
So values dot size.
What is the.
It will return three.
Okay.
Second one I am checking values.
This is values collection.
Right.
Values is empty.
No it has certain values right.
So it will return false.
Then I'm checking does values dot contain five.
Does it contain five?
No.
So it return false.
Then what I'm doing is I am adding the element five.
So I'm adding five.
Here I have done add.
Now I am checking values dot contain five.
Yes.
Now it will say true I have added it.
Okay.
Now I am removing.
So now here, if you see that there are two ways to remove remove using index.
So I am doing values dot remove.
If you give simply give integer primitive primitive value then it will be considered as an index values
dot remove three.
So 0123 index.
So five will get removed.
Okay, so now I am just checking values dot contain five.
No it has been removed right.
So it will be false.
Now I'm removing by object values dot remove.
Now I have created this primitive integer into a object integer dot value of.
You know that it is a wrapper object of primitive run, right?
So now it is an object.
So now it is not be considered as an index, it will be considered as an object.
So values dot remove.
So it will look for three and remove it.
If there are multiple three.
It will remove the first one.
Okay.
So it.
Now instead of going through the index it will remove the value three itself.
So now I'm checking values that contain three.
No three doesn't contain.
So it will also return false.
Okay.
So now let's say I have created another collection.
Uh earlier it was values which is ArrayList.
Now I'm containing stack which is stack values.
Okay.
So now this is my collection two.
This was collection one.
Now what I am doing add all.
So add all says that used to insert one collection into another collection.
So what I am doing is I am adding the stack values to the values.
So it was two and four because three and five was deleted two and four.
for now.
What I have added.
678I have added here 678
okay, so values dot contains all.
Now I am checking contents on stack values.
Does all the values of this stack values which is six, seven, eight are present here in the values.
In the values, yes, six, seven eight would be present.
So it should return true.
True.
Okay then I'm checking.
Uh, I'm, I'm removing one element from the values integer dot value f.
So I am removing as an object not as an index.
So I'm removing the seven seven has been removed.
Now I'm checking again contains all stack values.
So 678 contains in values.
No six is seven is already removed.
So it should return false okay so contains all.
Check this collection value is present here in this or not.
Okay, now what I'm doing is I'm doing remove all.
So what I am removing from this values I am removing everything value 678 I'm removing this from this
values.
So from this values I am removing six seven is already removed.
I have removed eight also.
Now I am checking again.
That does it contains eight or not?
Does it contain eight?
No eight has been removed so it will return false.
Now I am doing clear values dot clear.
So it should have removed this also.
So now it is empty.
Now I am checking values.
Dot is empty.
It will return true.
So now you know that these are all the methods which are common to all the methods, all the collections,
whether it's a priority queue, whether it's a array linked list ArrayList vector stacked.
All this one.
Okay, so if you understand it with the ArrayList itself, you will ultimately explain it with all.
All you need to understand is where to use priority queue, how it is actually used.
Okay, but you understand the purpose of the collection, right?
So these are all the methods which are exposed by collections which is help us which provided a common
interface.
Right now, no matter if you see that, if you have already seen that I have uses a list, I have same
user and stack, but this method is same dot add dot add dot add list also dot add dot dot add.
I don't have to remember.
I know that even in the for the priority queue, if I have to use I have to use dot add to insert.
Let's say if anything to remove right?
So dot remove should be used to remove no matter what.
So if you see that this framework has solved so many things for you.
Otherwise, just see that if this is not a common, if there is nothing common between priority queue
and ArrayList, so it might be using dot add, ArrayList might be using something dot insert.
How you will remember this syntax for which I have to do dot add for which I have to do dot insert for
which what are the parameter it take whatever the parameter it does, it takes.
But because of this collection, because of this framework, it's very easy to remember if you just
know this method.
Okay, this is gonna work for all of this methods, right?
So this is the power of the collections framework, right?
And I have explained you iterable and the collection.
Now we will go each priority queue array each choice.
What are the different in what scenarios which to use.
And then I will tell you the super important the streams which is available in Java 1.8 and very frequently
asked question.
But before that, there is one more questions come.
Difference between collection versus collections.
See its look very confusion a collection collections.
What's that man.
Doesn't it same.
So see, collection is something which we are.
It's a part of the collection framework.
So this is collection without S.
It's an interface.
Right.
And it's a part of collection framework which support this all these methods.
Right.
So it's a part of Java collection framework.
And it's an interface which expose various method which is implemented by various collection like ArrayList
stack this, we are good with it.
But now what is collections.
So here if you see that collections is a utility class.
When I say that utility class means all the methods in it would be static, right?
So we can see that.
Collections.
So if you go inside these collections, if you see that this is a class, this is not interface, right.
And here if you see that it might have all the static method because it's a utility class.
Right.
See all the methods are static.
Okay.
So that's why it's known as utility class because it provide only static methods.
Why?
It is a utility class.
It helps us to operate on collection.
So it expose certain method like this.
So now you have created a collection let's say list or stack or something.
So this collection is a utility class which expose certain method which helps to do certain operations
like sorting, binary search, reverse swap.
So you can say that it's a utility.
It's just an add on.
It's not like something very very much requirement.
You can also write your logic to sort it, but that's why it is known as utility class.
You can it just make your work a little bit easier by providing these methods so it is available in
the collections class, not interface class collections like sort search, get reverse shuffle, swap
copy, min, max, rotate.
So these are very common methods.
Self-explanatory.
So I have created a list a collection.
Now let's say I'm using this utility method collections dot.
Because it's a static method I can call it I don't need an object.
I can call it with a class name itself collections dot max.
So what is the max value?
It will return four.
This will return four collections dot min.
What?
It will return one collections dot sort so it will sort it one.
So it is 1324 right.
It will print.
If you print it, it will print one, two, three, four.
Then for printing I am using for each method Okay, so this is the difference.
This is just a utility method.
This is a part of Java collection framework which is available in 1.2 okay.
Got it.
So in the next we will go through each of this one and understand how they are different from each other
and which one to use when and and then we will, uh, go through for this map also.
First we'll let's cover this one.
And we also understand that why map cannot be a part of an iterable or under collection.
There can also be have a separate one more like map.
Why map is not part of this one collection?
Why map is not part of iterable?
So there are couple of more questions which I will cover in the next video.
Okay guys, and stream is I will cover the last.
It's very important.
I need a separate video for it.
One.
Okay guys, see you any doubt.
Do practice this one and we will complete the collection as soon as possible.
Okay guys.
See you.
Bye.

--- Collections in Java - Part2 | Comparator Vs Comparable | PriorityQueue ---

Hello.
Hey guys welcome to Concept in Coding.
And let's start in the second part of the collection video.
And we have already covered what is iterable what is collection.
And today I am going to start one very important concept with this queue and also comparator and comparable
very very frequently asked interview question okay so let's start with our queues.
So as the name itself is very clear, you already know that in the queue is something like standing
one after the another.
Right.
So let's say you have a queue right.
This is your front.
This is your front and this is your rear.
So any new item which is added it is added at the back.
Right.
It's always added at the rear.
And anything which is getting removed it is removed from the front right.
Similarly like we are standing in a queue of anything like movie theater, right.
So anyone who wants a ticket first?
Stand in a queue at the end and anyone who gets the ticket is from the front.
And then they go.
Okay, so this is a very basic concept of queue.
But this whatever the functionality like first come first serve right.
First in first out Fifo approach.
This is not generally you can say that uh, there are different flavors of queues like priority queue
is one of them right.
So at the base level you can say that queue is something like this.
But there are different flavors which are available which also have certain different, uh, behaviors
of queue.
So we will also see that.
So queue is what queue is an interface child of a collection interface class.
Generally queue follows Fifo approach.
But there are exceptions like priority queue queue support all the methods available in collection plus
some other methods mentioned below.
So Q is the child of collection interface, right?
So it also has all the methods which are available in collection plus some other methods also.
So what are the new methods which Q has is this has this six methods add, offer, poll, remove, peek
and element.
So let's say we have an Q.
So what does add will do.
So we will see an example also bottom uh but let's first understand what this different methods means
and how they are different to each other.
So add.
So what add will do it.
Insert the element into the q.
It returns true if insertion is successful and exception if insertion fails right.
And what it does it returns a null null element insertion is not allowed.
It will throw null pointer exception.
So whenever you call let's say add uh five.
So it will insert an element five.
Right.
And if you try to say that ad it will throw null pointer exception because null element is not allowed.
And if there is any issue while doing an addition exception will be thrown.
There is a second method called offer.
It is exactly same as add, but only difference is that if insertion fails then it returns false instead
of throwing an exception, but it is also used to insert an element into the queue.
Only difference is when insertion fails, it returns false instead of exception.
That's all.
Then we have pole and remove again the same difference, only the difference in the exception part.
But the pole retrieves and removes the head of the queue.
Returns null if q is empty.
So you have a Q, right?
So what happens is so let's say this is the head or you can say that front.
Okay.
So what it will do is retrieves and removes the head of the Q when you do poll what it will do is it
will remove the head of the Q and returns this whatever the element was there.
Right.
And it returns null.
If the Q is empty.
Then there is something called remove.
So it is exactly same as poll.
But if the q is empty, it returns an exception which is no such element exception.
And while the poll returns null.
Similarly we have peek and element.
So what does peek say is that.
So you have an element in the queue.
It just retrieves the value present at the head but does not remove it.
So whenever you do peek so whatever element is present at the head or front it.
Just return it right.
But it doesn't remove like what poll does.
Poll also return it like, but it doesn't.
But it also removes it while peek doesn't remove it.
And if the queue is empty, it returns null.
And what does element do?
Element is also same as the peek.
What it will do is it will return the head of the queue but doesn't remove it.
But if queue is empty, it will return an exception.
So these are the six methods and we will see an example.
Uh so this is the interface.
So queue is an interface which has exposed these six methods right now.
Whichever the class like priority queue is one of the class.
So they will implement this based upon the requirement how they are adding an element.
Right.
So iterator iterable Irritable is a interface, then collection is a sub interface of the irritable.
Then Q is also again a sub interface of the collection, and priority Q is something which implements
the q.
So now let's jump into the priority Q.
And I would say that if you are doing data structure questions and you have been doing uh, heap, then
in Java, the heap implementation, you have to use priority queue.
If you are solving any data structure question using heap, then you have to use priority queue.
Uh why?
I'll tell you.
So see priority queue is of two types minimum priority queue and max priority queue.
And this priority queue uses what data structure.
Internally it uses priority heap.
So when I say that minimum priority queue you can say that it is very very equivalent to min heap.
When I say maximum priority queue you can say that it is very equivalent to max heap, right?
Internally the data it stores in a heap format.
So elements are ordered according to their natural ordering by default or by comparator provided during
the queue construction time.
Okay.
So let's see this line with an example.
So let's say I have this minimum priority queue.
So this is just a normal method mean.
So now I am creating a priority queue.
Priority queue of integer equals to.
I am creating a new priority queue like this.
In the constructor.
I haven't provided anything right.
I just created a new priority queue.
So what if I haven't provided anything?
What?
This priority queue.
This queue would be stored data.
In what format?
Either ascending format or descending or sorting format.
What format?
Right.
So priority queue says that it's store the orders the data according to the natural ordering.
Right.
Ordered according to the natural ordering by default.
So even though you are just creating a priority queue, right.
You haven't.
You just say that.
Okay, I wanted a queue and I want to insert a data inside a queue, but internally it do certain kind
of ordering priority queue, right?
And if you don't provide anything, what is the by default uh ordering.
It follows natural ordering.
So natural ordering is like for integer natural ordering is ascending order.
And if you are using a string if here you are using a string, it's I think Lexicographically Graphically
sorted.
So that's the natural order.
And if you want to change that natural order you have to use comparator.
How to use comparator I'll tell you.
But first use this.
So currently I created a priority queue with an empty constructor.
Means by default it is used.
It is ordering by the natural ordering.
So it is an integer.
So it might be doing an ascending order right.
And whenever ascending order is minimum at first minimum at first right.
So minimum at first means it has to create a min heap right.
So now this priority queue is kind of constructing would be a min heap okay.
So now let's say I'm and you already know that how the min heap is gonna constructed internally.
Right.
So here let's say I have add five.
So it will add five here first, then min priority queue dot add two.
So two is less than five.
So it would be inserted here.
Then it will do heapify.
So two will be here and five would be here.
Because two is lesser than this.
We are constructing a min heap.
And why we are constructing a min heap because we haven't provided anything into the constructor.
Constructor is currently empty, so it will use its it will order it based on its natural ordering and
generally it's ascending.
Natural base for integer a natural ordering is ascending minimum at first and for minimum at first.
In heap it is generally nothing but a min heap.
Then we have eight, so eight is greater than two.
It should be at right.
So it is still satisfy the heapify property.
Then one one is less than two, one is less than five.
Here.
then it will do.
Heapify.
So this will swap and then it will swap with this.
So one will come here, two will come here, five will come here eight is here.
Okay.
So after inserting this minheap would be like this.
Now let's print all the values.
So for printing the values we know that it follows level order traversal.
So how it will print.
So it will print first one.
Then it will print two and eight.
Then it will print the last level 51285.
So 1285.
But now let's try to remove the element from the priority queue.
So here for insertion I have used add add method of the queue.
Now for insertion which one I have to use.
Either I can use remove or I can use pole right.
So I'm using pole.
So I am iterating over the priority queue till it is not empty and I am doing poll.
So what it will happen is so it will remove the top element and it will return it also.
So it will be inside here and I am printing it.
Remove from top value would be one.
Right.
And then after removing it it will heapify again.
So it would be the next minimum would be at the top 258.
So after that it would be two.
Then after that it would be next minimum would be five and then after would be eight.
And after that uh, priority queue would be an empty and it goes out.
Okay.
So even though if you see that priority queue, even though we are just inserting the data, right.
So generally if you see that queue first come first come first out, so generally it should be 5281.
Right.
That's how they inserted after five.
Two comes after two.
Eight comes.
And if we take out, it generally should be the same order.
But in the priority queue it has only of two types minimum or max.
If you don't provide anything in the constructor, it will use kind of a min heap.
Now if you wanted to change it to a max, we have to use a comparator and I'll tell you how.
So this is clear.
Priority queue is of two types min and max, which is nothing but a similar to a heap data structure.
Okay.
So now let's see a max priority queue example.
Everything is same.
Only thing is like okay what priority queue I wanted.
So new priority queue.
If I wanted a min I have to just nothing to provide into the constructor.
But if I want a max, I can provide a construct, a comparator.
So this is a comparator.
This is very important.
And this is my next topic is comparator versus comparator.
Very, very frequently asked in an interview.
And also it's very good for understanding also.
So don't worry about this how I added this comparator.
Because once I tell you about the comparator and comparable, then I can again comes to this line and
tell how it's, uh, constructing in a decreasing order how it's making into a max heap.
Okay.
But understand this now, when I wanted a max heap or wanted to store the data into a decreasing order,
right.
I have provided a comparator.
Now, this comparator tells that hey stores the data into a reverse order, right?
Now when I'm storing it.
So 5281.
So earlier it would be five.
Then I am adding two.
So in it it stores the data in a heap format.
Right.
And I told that it should be max heap.
And so two is less than this.
No heapify because had a parent is greater than the child, then eight and then it will do Heapify 825,
then 18215.
I think it's all satisfied.
The heapify format.
I'm just printing it.
So it follows an order level.
So first eight, then two and five and then 182518251.
And then let's do a polling like remove it from the top.
So first it will remove eight right.
So it will remove eight.
Then it will heapify after removing internally.
So next big number would be at top five then two then one.
So it would be five then two, then 18521.
Got it.
And when the max priority queue is empty it will go out.
So priority queue we know now right?
So now you know that when you have to use priority queue whenever you wanted a heap property, then
you have to use a priority queue right.
So priority queue either so it doesn't store.
So whenever you want it like hey I have a data one, two, three, seven in the whatever the same order
it comes the store in the same order.
No don't use them.
Priority queue because priority queue is of two type only minimum and maximum.
It's kind of a min heap.
It's kind of a max heap.
If you don't provide anything into the constructor, it would be a min heap.
And if you provide the comparator right, you can change the min heap to a max heap.
And how now I will tell you.
So these are the certain time complexities of priority queue.
This is exactly same as heap generally nothing difference.
And so you know that add generally takes n log n because of the Heapify property.
Peek is just at the look at the top head, so it's big O of one pole and remove head element.
It's log N because uh, let's say 825.
Even though you remove it in O of one then you have to do heapify again.
So that's log n so o of one plus log n it's log n.
But if you have to remove some arbitrary element let's say I have to remove uh certain like a four.
So it has to iterate over each element and then remove four.
Then it's the big O of n.
So these are the time complexity of priority queue.
Now while learning this priority queue we have come up with something called comparator which is used
to change the ordering.
Right now let's have this better understanding now because this is very important.
So comparator And comparable both provides a way to sort the collection of objects.
So it provides a way or you can say that helps in sorting, but it doesn't sort.
It just help in sorting.
Okay.
So comparator and comparable both helps in sorting of the collection of objects.
How.
Let's see first an issue like why they need it.
Actually first we have to understand the need of them.
So let's say that I am creating a very primitive collection sorting I am doing a primitive objects like
so integer integer int is a primitive data type.
So I have created its collection an array 1234.
And I am doing arrays dot sort and provided this.
So now here if you see that when you go inside this sort method which JDK provides internally what it
does it it uses the certain quicksort algorithm.
Okay.
So here if you see that for this uh sorting.
So here it provide a quicksort algorithm.
And it just sort it in ascending order.
It will sort it into one, two, three, four an ascending order okay.
Because this is the direct implementation which we are using.
Uh quicksort dot sort okay.
But now let's say okay I can sort in ascending order.
But how to sort in descending order.
That's one question okay.
Another is another problem.
I would say that object collection sorting.
So you know that one requirement which you have is like okay, if I have an integer array, how to sort
in descending order, that's one requirement.
Another is object collection sorting.
So now let's say I have instead of integer primitive type I have an object Carr.
Carr has two things.
What?
What is the car name and the car type.
And this is just a simple constructor.
Now I am creating an array of an object car array, right?
Of three of the size I have given.
And in the three what I am putting is car name is let's say SUV type.
It's petrol, second is sedan, type is diesel, third is hatchback and type is CNG.
Just say that I have put that one.
Now I am doing arrays dot sort array right.
Like I used for the primitive one arrays dot sort array.
So generally if you see that if you try to do it and doesn't provide whether we have to do in ascending
or descending order here, it sort into the ascending order by its internally, whatever the algorithm
it is using quicksort or whatever, but it sort into ascending order.
So when I do this, arrays dot sort car array and run the programs it gives me this exception car cannot
be cast to comparable.
Why?
It gives me this.
Why?
For primitive it is able to sort in ascending order.
Why?
For this arrays dot sort car array.
Why it is not able to sort it right.
So that is like objects collection.
So this array is generally also a type of a collection.
You can say that.
But what I am trying to say is that object collection sorting is only possible through if you provide
a comparator and comparable which helps in sorting.
So now I'll tell you the issue here why we got this problem.
So when you have a let's say any number 518 ten in an array or collection anything.
So internally for sorting they compare two values.
Let's say first they are comparing five and eight let's say.
Okay.
So they do compare it.
So which one to keep first.
Which one to keep second.
So do they need swapping.
So currently are they in the correct order or they need swapping okay.
So this has to be decided right.
Whether they need to swap or not.
So generally comparator and comparable expose certain method which actually tells that yes you need
to swap.
It should be 815 ten or no, this is the correct ordering for five and eight.
Okay.
So now here it doesn't find that compare method.
So here we have three objects one object to we have created three objects.
One is with SUV and petrol.
Another is sedan and diesel.
Another is hatchback and CNG.
So we have an array of this three and we are trying to sort it.
So it internally 012.
So internally it might be comparing this with might be some other object right.
Depending upon the algorithm.
So while comparing it it has to decide whether I need to swap it with or not.
And for that it require it takes help of comparator and comparable.
Right.
So here when it tries to look for the compare hey which one.
Whether I have to swap this two or not.
So it doesn't find a method into the car here.
The whatever the class car object which we have created right.
It doesn't find any compare method which will tell us while comparing this two whether I have to swap
or not.
Okay.
Now you can ask me, right?
Hey why car How car can have this compare method, right?
How?
How we gonna do this?
Now let's jump into.
But at least.
Are you aware now you got the issue.
So whenever.
So two things.
First thing is whenever you want to change the natural ordering.
So here at resort it will do a natural ordering of ascending order.
And it might be using certain direct algorithm itself.
Right.
So whenever you want to change hey I don't want to use this, uh, simple quicksort directly because
we know that it will sort in ascending order.
I want to sort in certain different order descending order.
So then you need comparator comparable support.
Second is if you have an object let's say maybe user defined or maybe some other internally defined
object and you want to sort them.
Then also you need the help of comparator and comparable because we internally object would get compared
to each other and whether to swap or not.
It has to.
No algorithm has to know.
Okay, so now let's see that how to add this support compare method.
Right.
So how to sort the object array with the help of comparator and comparable.
So let's first focus on comparator.
Then we'll come to comparable.
So if you see that comparator comparator is a functional interface.
It's a functional interface which has this abstract method which has this abstract method.
Compare object one.
Object two.
Let's see that.
Okay.
So here uh, let's say that uh.
Comparator.
Go inside this comparator.
So comparator is your functional interface, right.
And here, if you see that this is the abstract method which has which accepts two objects.
Okay.
So what happen is sorting algorithm.
Use this compare method.
Sorting algorithm.
Use this compare method of the comparator to compare two variables and decide whether to swap the variables
or not.
So this compare method.
Generally it should be like.
So it has two values right.
Object one.
Object two.
So earlier I have given the name V1V2.
After that I have changed to object one.
Object two.
So consider this v one as object one and consider this v two as object two okay.
So now this compare method is like object one.
Object two.
If object one greater than object two it should return one.
If object one is equals to equals to object two.
It should return zero if object one is less than object two.
It should return minus one.
Right.
So generally here if you see that.
Our algorithms internally I will show you see whatever the JDK has written the algorithm right.
It is based on this only.
So this compare has two method.
If object one is greater than object two, it is expecting that I will get one greater than zero number.
If both are equal, I will get zero.
If object one is less than object two, I will get certain negative number less than less than zero
number.
Right.
So now let's see that part.
So here I am taking this example.
Okay.
Now let me have this example written also, and we'll see that I'm creating an integer array.
Some random I'm putting into unordered form 17 351 ten something I have taken just a random.
Okay, now here what I'm trying to do is I want you to sort it.
So I'm doing arrays dot sort.
I want to pass this array but I but you know that if I go internally right.
This is an object.
This is not a primitive one.
This is a wrapper object.
Right.
So internally what it calls it calls an object.
Right.
So but I want to sort it into a let's say descending order.
But let's say use this with the comparator.
Right.
So here let's say I'm using a comparator one integer a or let's say val one.
Integer val two.
Val one val two okay.
So here it's a val one val two okay.
Now what I have done here like and also here, if you see that if I write it like this arrays dot sort.
This is also equivalent to this.
Both are equal actually here now.
Now let's explain this.
See this.
Now first let me go inside this arrays dot sort.
So which method it will call this array.
And the comparator.
So here if you see that this comparator is a functional interface.
It has one abstract method which accept two variables, two parameters.
So that's why I have sended that this is an array.
And this is the.
I used a lambda expression and pass this expression itself.
Pass this function to that functional interface.
So internally whenever the compare method will get invoked this will get executed.
Okay.
Now let's see this part.
Okay I pass the comparator if c equals to equals to null no.
Now let's say it is going inside the merge sort.
Uh so if c equals to equals to none no it goes inside.
Let's say merge sort.
So now here if you see that it is doing certain swapping.
So Massad has a logic to swap right now while swapping what it has the logic C dot compare and it passes
the two values right.
If it is also greater than zero.
So now we know that I have passed this as a comparator function.
So whenever it has called dot compare and it passed this two values comma this two values.
So it will invoke this comparator here compare method and pass the two values.
So the two values would I have passed as val one comma val two.
And now it is checking if it is greater than zero.
Then only do the swap.
Let's understand this with an example.
Let's say I have 6419.
Now let's say this is my, uh.
My one cursor is here, my cursor is here.
And one this is my pointer one.
This is my pointer two.
to.
Now I have passed in the compare method.
So compare method accept two variable right object one and object two.
So in the object one.
Let's say I have passed six and object two I have passed nine, right six and nine.
So what implementation I have given is val one minus val two, which is nothing but object one minus
object two.
So six minus nine.
Internally it is doing minus right I am doing minus six minus nine.
It would be negative right?
Right.
It will not be greater than zero.
So our code which is present into the JDK itself, it checks that if it is greater than zero then only
do the swap.
So here six minus nine is greater than zero.
No it is not greater than zero.
So it will not swap.
So it would be like six nine only.
So smaller would be front of bigger only.
But what if it was like this 941 and let's say six and over one pointer is here, another pointer is
here.
And while passing this I pass here in the object one I passed let's say object one.
Object two.
So let's say I have in the object one I have passed val one which is nine.
Val two is nothing but a one.
Now here when this compare method get invoked it will do val one minus one two nine minus one.
Which is greater than zero, right?
According to algorithm nine minus one.
So this method will get invoked.
It will do object one minus object two as we have provided the implementation here.
So it would be greater than zero.
And it will do swap.
So it would become swap.
So it will become one and nine here.
So it will try to insert here in the ascending order if you see that.
Okay.
So that's what I'm trying to say, that what thing you should take out from this is that the comparator
is not doing the sorting algorithm.
Sorting algorithm is already present already there into that.
Whenever you are doing arrays dot sort right internally it might be using quicksort, merge sort time,
sort whatever sorting.
But internally it is using this compare method to decide whether I have to swap or not.
Right.
So currently algorithms are written in this format.
If it is greater, if value one object one is greater than object two, swap it right.
If both are equals, do nothing.
And if also object one is less than object two also do nothing, so means it is trying to do in an ascending
format.
Okay.
So this is it.
This is the comparator.
And I think if you have followed the functional interface lambda expression this is very, very easy.
Looks very easy and clear to you.
And if you are facing difficulty here and what I have done here, please go and check that video first.
Then it makes more sense that what I am, how we are sending this like this, right?
But I want to tell you that this comparator helps in just doing the like, whether which one variable
has to swap or not, but sorting algorithm is already there.
So now one thing you should know that okay, I get it here.
We have provided a comparator.
And we have exhibit the same behavior so that it is sorting in ascending order.
What about this arrays dot sort array.
Here we are not passed this comparator here we have not passed this comparator.
But how is sorting in the ascending order?
So now let's go inside this and check it out.
So it goes.
Now let's say it goes into this object.
Let's say it's going into the merge sort.
It's going into the merge sort part.
So here if you see that it is using compare two method and then use the swap compare two.
This flavor is internally using compare two.
So compare two is available in comparable.
Compare two is available in comparable.
This is also the same thing.
This also compare two is also provide this.
That's the behavior that if greater than if object one is greater than object two, it should be one
as zero else minus one.
We'll come to this compare to.
But what I am trying to say is that it is also using compare to and here integer.
If you see that it implements a comparable.
So it should have one.
Compare two method.
Compare two method which is generally doing that.
So it has compare.
So here it is returning either minus one 0 or 1 right.
If x less than y it is returning minus one.
So nothing but an object one is less than object two return minus one.
If both are equal, return zero.
If x is greater than this, return one.
Okay, so but we will come to this comparable.
But what I'm trying to say is that internally, no matter which we are using.
So this one is using first one is using explicitly we have provided the comparator.
So it goes into one of the sorting uh flavor which use the comparator compare method.
And there is another sort flavor.
If you have just provided this it internally goes to a method of sorting, which uses compare to to
decide whether to swap or not.
And uh, yeah, it against uh, this behavior only it is sending.
Okay.
So we'll see and check the comparable also.
But at least you are clear right.
Comparator part.
So now here if you see that in this algorithm when I sort it I what I what is the comparator.
I pass.
Uh so in the comparator I pass two objects.
So val1 val2 of this integer because any two value get be compared.
Right.
So this should be same as what your collection type is.
So whenever they compare Val1 val2 only I am doing so six -11 it should be negative.
So don't swap it.
So it is in ascending order.
But now let's say if I want to sort in a descending order descending order, what I have to do Can we
do just simply like well to minus well one this formula, this implementation.
If I change it we actually start doing the descending order.
For example, earlier it was let's say six and 11 I am doing well one minus well two.
Now it's six and 11 again I'm doing well two minus well one.
Right.
And our algorithm is which is written is like if greater than zero swap.
That's our algorithm is written right.
So now and here it's called the compare method.
So now let's say compare method.
This is a compare method.
First I am doing val1 minus val two.
So this is val one.
This is val two six -11.
It would be negative.
It would return negative negative greater than zero false.
It doesn't swap.
So it is in sorting in ascending order 611.
But if I start doing well two minus well one.
So this is well one.
This is well two well two minus well one.
Well two minus well one.
So well two is your 11.
Well one is six.
So in the compare method it calls internally this implementation.
And it will do 11 minus six.
It is greater than zero.
Yes 11 minus six is greater than zero.
Yes.
Then swap.
So ultimately it swapped and it become 11 and six.
So now kind of a descending order.
So you can say that just by tweaking here and algorithm remains the same.
Right.
We can do either ascending or either descending.
So that's why internally all the sorting algorithms using this compare method and we can it provides
the capability to engineer that okay.
Using this we can tweak whether we want to sort in ascending or descending.
So that's why I did.
I have created an integer array 64192 11 some random numbers and sorting.
I passed the array, but I explicitly passed the comparator also.
And in this comparator, if you see that I have just changed val to minus one, I added.
Now it will always try to sort in the ascending or descending order, right?
Because algorithm is same greater than zero only swap.
Now just I have changed it.
So now let's say this is Val one.
This is well two.
So I have changed it to val two minus val one.
So it's two minus nine.
It's negative.
Negative greater than zero.
Don't swap it.
So nine is still front two is at back.
So it will sort in the descending order okay.
You got this one right.
comparator how this comparator is.
And similarly if you go that in the priority queue I have used the same thing.
I have provided the comparator in the priority queue.
The constructor also takes a comparator.
I have just given a comparator I.
Okay.
It's two values always sort in decreasing order.
So for max heap just provide a decreasing order b minus a.
Okay.
Now let's see an example of the card type.
I have created a car.
Car has two either card name and card type.
So this one I have.
So I have created this car object which has this three SUV petrol and diesel hatchback CNG.
Now you know that when we try to sort it simple car array, it throws an Issue because it couldn't find
a comparable method.
How to compare this?
Which one to bring first or swap it or not?
So for this how I'm solving it using comparator, it is also able to solve through comparable.
But first we are learning comparator.
So here I'm solving it through comparator.
So arrays dot sort card array.
Now I am passing a comparator here.
So I have passed two objects.
So whatever the array type is because it's gonna be a comparison between these two objects only.
Right.
So car only car is your object one another is object two.
Now I want to compare based on its type let's say on type.
So now I'm doing object two dot car type.
So understand that what I'm trying to do is object two.
So means I am trying to insert in descending order or something.
Object two dot card type compares to object one dot card type.
So this is nothing but, uh, compare in a lexicographical order, right.
For a string, right?
So.
So I am doing the same thing which I was doing through integer only, but using compare to for string.
It does a lexicographical uh, kind of ordering.
Right.
And object two I have used first.
And so it means I want to do in a decreasing order and it sort based on the type now okay.
So now here, if you see that if I want to sort with the comparator I can change it.
Right.
Let's say if I want to sort based on a card name.
So I have this again same take example SUV sedan hatchback.
Right.
And I have this uh arrays dot sort car array object one.
Object two.
And what what is the implementation I'm doing?
Object one dot card name compares to object two dot card name.
Right?
So now I am sorting based on the name and object one here at the first.
Right?
So means I am trying to sort in an increasing order.
Right?
So now let's say you have SUV sedan hatchback.
So this is like we have in a let's say an array.
This is we are trying to compare this two, this two.
And these are the name.
And the type is there let's say petrol diesel CSV.
But we are comparing with this name.
So let's say this is value one.
This is value two.
So what I'm doing is value one dot card name compares to value two dot car name.
So that is nothing but SUV compares to Two hatchback.
Okay.
So now here if you see that SUV compares to hatchback.
So SUV lexicographically this is greater than hatchback right.
So it will return greater than zero right.
And you know that algorithm right.
When it is greater than zero it do swap.
So hatchback is now your first and SUV is back.
So we are trying to sort in an ascending order.
So here based on the car name, if you see that hatchback is first then sedan then SUV.
So now here if you see that we can do sorting based on lot of flavors.
So we have seen one flavor I can do sort on based on the type on the car itself, and another I can
also do based on the name also.
Okay.
So now here if you see that one.
So this one we have seen.
Right.
Okay.
So now I am trying to do in descending order this is one more example, the same thing.
Now you already know that for sorting in a descending order what you have to do.
Object two compares to object one and on the based on car name, right?
So now it would be in the descending order.
So SUV sedan hatchback.
So based on this we are doing an ordering.
Okay.
So because this is the compare method compares a method which we have sent compares method.
Okay.
So now here one thing is if you have followed the Lambda video function interface video, I told you
that there are three ways right for doing so.
This is one of the.
So I currently have used directly use the lambda expression.
If you don't want to use the lambda expression you can also use that.
So here if you see that I have created a car object, now I can have this like one way is like I created
the new comparator class and implements the comparator.
So when you implement the comparator you have to implement its abstract method.
Compare right.
And when you implement this compare you have to provide what you wanted.
What functionality you wanted.
So here I am doing o to object to minus object one.
So some something like a descending order I want to sort right based on car name.
So similarly you can have more comparators like car type comparator right.
You can have more car type descending comparator ascending comparator.
Right.
You can have that one.
But you have to implement this functional interface and provide the implementation.
Right.
And while using it how you can use it, you can let's say now I am using instead of an array I am using
a collection now.
So here I am using a list of cards array list.
I have added this three items.
Now I'm doing collection dot sort.
So see, one thing is like whether I have been explaining you through uh array internally both are same.
So here let's see that collections dot.
Right.
Let's say it is trying to sort a list.
What it is doing is internally nothing but a same it first convert to an array and then call arrays
dot sort something.
So that's what we are where we are learning first on based on the arrays itself.
Because even though you are using a collection now here list, even though you are doing collections,
sort internally, first convert to an array and then calls the same method arrays dot sort.
So that's the same thing.
So.
But here what now I am passing here is that uh, I have created a new class called comparator card name
comparator, which is sorting in decreasing order.
Now I can pass this comparator like this.
Right?
Even though you can create an anonymous class, also, you know that there are three ways, right?
You can either implement it function interface.
Either you can do anonymous or you can do lambda expression.
So generally I am more comfortable in doing lambda expression and also better itself.
You don't have to create a different class altogether, but you can still this is an option right?
You can create this.
You can have as many as comparator classes which implements this comparator, and have the compare and
pass that comparator into this sorting.
And also in the same class, if you want to have the only one, only one compare method.
Right.
You don't have a requirement that no, I have I don't want car name comparator car type comparator car
name.
Ascending comparator.
Condemned.
Descending.
Comparator.
No, I want only one type of kind of a compare method and nobody should change it also.
Right.
They should only use that.
So you can also use this.
You can create a.
So whatever the class which you have right in the same class you can implement the comparator.
And now you have to implement the comparator.
You have to implement this abstract method compare and you can do whatever you want.
So here I'm doing based on card name and in ascending order okay.
Now here you whenever somebody has to use it they can pass this like new car object.
And inside that it will call.
They will call the compare method the sorting algorithms.
Right.
But now here you don't have much scope that you cannot create a different comparators like okay I can
create ten comparator providing support for sorting based on car name, car type, ascending, descending.
Right.
But that's a choice.
But at least my point is you should be clear.
Like what this comparator is, right?
Whether you are doing through Lambda, whether you are doing through creating a separate method itself
and passing it, or whether you are creating an anonymous also, that's also fine.
Okay, but at least you should know comparator and how it is beneficial.
But now let's see to the comparable.
So now here if you see that comparable also is having one method compare to.
So comparable is here.
If you see this in the comparable.
This is comparable.
This is an interface right.
They haven't defined it as a functional interface and all.
But this also has one abstract method Compared to which has only accept one method, which only accept
one method.
That's the only difference.
It has two objects.
Right now it has only one objects.
And because of this two objects, it gives us a capability that we can create a new class itself comparator.
Right.
And pass the two objects and do comparison here.
But because here we have only one method, here we have only one method.
Now you cannot create a new class.
You have to have to have use do this kind of stuff only here in the same whatever the object class you
have, you have to do comparable here.
Why?
Because it has only one object like compare two only.
Let's say a car object two Object.
One is the one which is invoking this this.
So object one would be this which is invoking this car class.
Right.
So this dot you will now do compare something.
So for comparable only option is that you have to the same object class.
You have to use it right.
So now let's see an example I'll tell you an example here.
That is the only difference.
So comparable is like comparator helps you that uh you can do you have so many options right.
You can do lambda expression.
You can create a separate class, one class based on the name, one class based on the car type, doing
lot of different ways of sorting.
But in comparator you can have only one type of sorting.
So for example I am creating an integer array.
One to, let's say one, seven, 6 or 3.
Now I am doing arrays dot sort array.
Right.
Now what will happen here is this sorting works.
I told you right here internally it will goes and using compares to right.
So here now if here if you see that it is passing an object and then calling compare to.
So it is like let's say it is comparing one and three.
It is comparing one and three.
So this is an integer object right.
So it's like one dot compares to right.
So that's what it is doing right here.
We see that right.
Yeah.
Whatever the value one.
And it's called the compare two.
The value two.
Now here.
So here in the integer it has to implement the comparable now, and since it has implemented the comparable,
it has to have a compare two method integer and it has this method itself.
So now here, if you see that it will always have only one compare logic.
So if this compare logic is written like x minus y kind of thing right.
It is comparing x less than y return minus one.
Right?
So if it is written in this way means it is just doing ascending order compares two values numerically,
it is doing a ascending order.
But if you want to say that, hey, I want to sort in descending order, I.
And if you want to sort in descending order, you need to change the this method right compare to method
how you will change it.
Now you can't change it, right because.
It is here inside this implements here.
And once you have implemented here, you can have only one method.
And in one method the functionality you have provided is for ascending.
Now if you want to do descending order how you will do.
So.
That's where the comparator comes into the picture.
Comparators is like you don't have to change in this let's say integer class.
You don't have to change in this class.
Right.
I can use a comparator and either can sort in ascending or either can sort in descending also.
But with the comparable it's got fixed right.
Let's take a solve with our custom object class.
It will become more clear to you guys.
So now let's say I want to implement to comparable of this card type.
So I have to implement its method.
I'm just doing this dot based on let's say I want to, uh, store card type dot compares to.
Object.
So this is my object, let's say two object two dot card type.
Okay.
So now I have provided this one compares to method.
And here inside this we have know that it just two strings Lexicographically.
So now when I'm creating this array card like whether you create a list also let's take a list.
Also it's internal.
It's the same.
Uh.
Card list equals to new array list.
Let's say card dot I'm creating a new card.
First I'm creating SUV with Petrol.
All right.
And the second one I'm creating a scarless dot.
Add new car with sedan with CNG.
Now here I'm doing collections.
Dot sort, car list.
That's all.
Will it work?
Yes, it will work.
How?
Now it.
Let's go.
It goes inside.
Sort.
List.
Dot.
Sort.
It just compares to array arrays.
Dot sort.
Right.
So see comparator is equal to equal to null.
Yes comparator is null I haven't provided the comparator.
It will go inside this.
Let's say it goes into either this or this.
Let's say this merge sort.
Here it's calling the compare to method object one compares to object two.
So here here let's say these are the objects right.
Object one compare to object two.
So object one is your.
car.
Car is your object one, right?
So here what it is doing, where it goes.
J minus one.
So let's say whatever the index would be let's say SUV sedan.
So index.
Uh so it first compares to comparable.
We can do that because our car is a kind of a child of this one.
So we can do that.
And now what it is doing here is.
Dot compares to.
So it will call dot compares to method.
And since we have overriding this method it will call this one it will call.
This compares to method.
And in this comparison method it will now compare based on this car type.
Right.
That's why it is only accept one object.
The first one would be like the object which invokes it.
This dot car type dot compares to this one.
So now we have only sorting based always sort based on ascending order of card type.
Right.
So this is object one.
Object two I'm doing object one compares to object two.
Whatever the comparator which we have learned.
Only difference is here we don't have two object.
The first object is present in the same class.
So you have to always implement in the comparable always implement in the object itself.
And you can only do one type of sorting, either ascending or descending.
But with the help of comparator you can either have or you don't need to change.
In this class, you don't need to change in this class.
While calling the sort, you can pass the comparator whether you want to sort in ascending or whether
you want to sort in descending.
I hope guys, this is clear.
This is do practice it.
This is very important.
And it's little bit I can say that I hope I am able to explain very clearly.
There are.
So many things here.
Go check it out again.
But you should be very clear.
What's the purpose of comparator and comparator.
How they are different.
So with the help of comparator you don't need to change in the object class.
You don't need to change.
And you can have either ascending or descending while calling the sort method itself.
But in the comparable you have to change in the object class, you have to, and you can only provide
only one type of compare method and one type of sorting.
You have to change in this only like you have to provide a comparable like we have seen.
Okay, let's say string.
A string also might be implementing the.
Comparable and it will since it's implementing the comparable it will have compared to method.
So if you do only with comparable you will have only one type of sorting way.
Okay, guys.
Uh, see you soon.
Bye.

--- Collections in Java - Part3 | Deque and List in Depth ---

Hey guys, welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in this video we are going to cover the Dccu and the list.
Right.
So we have already completed the priority queue and the queue.
And today we will cover this GQ array Dccu and all this list and its implementations.
Okay.
So before we start guys, uh, please excuse my voice.
I have a bad cough from last one week, so please bear with me.
Okay, so let's start today's topic, which is dccu.
Okay, so you know that we have already covered iterable collections queue and the priority queue.
And also after priority queue we have also covered comparator versus comparable.
Right.
So now here if you see that there is one more interface right which extends the queue, which is known
as DQ.
So DQ stands for double ended queue.
Okay, so we already know that what Q is queue is your first in first out generally.
Right.
We have this queue people standing in a line and those whoever comes first it will go out first right.
So double ended queue is double ended.
Queue means addition and removal can be done from the both side of the queue.
So in the normal queue what generally the concept would be is whenever the add will happen, add will
happen at the last okay.
And whenever the removal will happen, removal will happen from the front.
But here in this case double ended queue.
You can add an item in the start or you can add an item in the back itself.
Also removal.
You can remove an item from the start.
You can remove an item from the back so both sides.
That's why it is known as double ended queue.
Okay.
So let's see this.
What are the methods which are available in double ended queue interface.
So methods available in collections.
So what are the methods which are available is methods which are available in collection queue interface.
So here if you see that methods which are available in collection queue interface plus dequeue has some
new methods added.
So plus methods available in the queue interface.
So you know that a queue has this method add offer poll remove peek element.
We have already seen that.
So that is still available in the dequeue.
So dequeue has some more methods added.
So let's see that.
So one is for insert operation.
What new method has been added is At first.
So let's say this is a queue.
One.
2345.
Let's say it has five elements.
So one operation new method which added in the dequeue is add first.
So means whatever the elements we wanted to add it will add at the start of the queue.
Let's say I want to add zero.
So it will start at the start of the queue.
Okay.
So at first will throw exception if the insertion operation fails.
So it throws an exception.
There is another method called offer first.
So this is also the same as at first it will add an element at the start of the queue, but only difference
is that it will return true false.
If there is any exception, it does not throw exception.
It returns true and false.
Similarly, for insert, we know that double ended queue we can add in.
Start using these two methods, and we can add it in the back with these two methods at last.
So you can add an element at the last.
Let's say I want to add six and it will throw exception if the addition fails.
And there is one more variant of his offer last, it will also add an element at the last, but it will
throw true false if the insertion fails.
Okay, so in the insertion operation, if you see these four new methods are added into the dequeue
interface.
Similarly, remove remove also introduced four new methods.
That is remove.
First, it will remove an element from the start and if the removal fails, it will throw an exception.
Let's say if your queue is empty and you try to remove the first element, it will throw an exception.
The.
Another variant is poll first, so poll will also remove the element, but if the queue is empty, instead
of throwing an exception, it will return null.
It won't throw an exception.
Similarly, we have removed last and pull last.
Remove last will throw an exception.
Poll last will not throw an exception.
It will return null, and these two methods will help in removing the element from the last.
Then one more thing is examine.
Right.
So get first.
So this will not.
So this examine operation will not remove anything.
It will just return the element get first.
It will return from the front peak first it will return from the first same.
But it will not throw an exception.
If queue is empty it will return null.
Get first will throw an exception.
Similarly, for the last get last is the method which will return the last element and if the queue
is empty, let's say it will throw an exception Peak last is something which will return the same last
element, but return null if q is, the queue is empty.
Okay, so here if you see that this 12 methods are newly added into the interface and all the methods
which are already there in the queue, which is still present.
Okay.
So now you can ask, hey, like what happened to the add method because so queue was an interface.
Dequeue is also an interface if anybody implements it.
So it will have all this method plus this new methods.
So what would be the behavior of this old method.
So add.
So add will insert in the add first or at last what it would be offer.
Offer would insert into like offer first or offer last.
Right.
So here similarly I'll tell you that what happened in this case is Add.
Add internally calls.
Add last offer internally calls.
Offer last poll internally calls poll first remove internally calls.
Remove first peak.
Peak.
First element.
So it's a normal behavior if you use the add offer poll the parent one right.
So it would exhibit the same queue behavior.
Like if you are inserting anything it will insert at last add an offer will insert at last and any removal
will remove from the first okay.
So until and unless if you if you are using this methods, it will work generally as a normal queue.
But if you want to specifically want to add at a last add at a remove from the last, you can use specific
methods.
So now, one thing you should note is that using this method, we can even use DQ to implement the stack.
Also we are.
We can implement Q for sure, right?
We can use this methods and implement the Q at first, uh, at last we can implement the Q plus.
We can also implement the stack using DQ also.
So what does stack means.
Generally stack is element one.
Then it comes on top of it three four.
Like this.
And when the removal happen removal happen from the top last in first out.
So now in the DQ what we can do is let's say we keep on adding element here.
Let's say I will always do add first and remove first.
Let's say so I added let's say uh one.
So this queue is empty first.
So I added one.
Then again I want to add so I can do add.
First it will add two, then three, then four, then five.
Like like this 1234.
Then when the removal I can also do from remove first.
So it will remove the top one five, then four, then three, then two, then one.
So I can implement it.
DQ is as a stack also based upon the methods you can.
You can use this method and implement it like this.
So in the DQ actually you have two more methods which is push and pop.
So push internally calls add first pop internally calls remove first.
So you can use this method internally.
It calls this method only at first.
Remove first and you can get the behavior of a stack.
Okay.
So this is the DQ interface.
Which methods which are exposed in the interface and why it is different from Q.
Right.
So one of the implementation of DQ interfaces.
Array DQ.
So now let's see the array DQ.
So array dequeue.
It's a concrete class right.
It implements the it implements the DQ right.
So so it implements the methods which are available in Q and DQ interface.
So all the methods which we have q and DQ.
So since these are only the interface only the concrete class can implement this.
So array DQ has provided the implementation for all.
Let's see an example of this one.
So here if you see that I am creating an array DQ okay so I have created an array So it's of integer
type.
Okay.
So now I'm what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to do insertion.
So I am doing array dequeue.
So I'm trying to use it as a queue.
So first I'm trying to use it as a queue.
So while using it as a queue I can add last.
So currently queue is empty.
And last is this only one.
Then add last five.
Then it will add last five.
Then add last ten.
Okay so this is inserted first, then five, then ten.
And then while I'm removing it I'm removing from the first.
So it will remove one first then five then ten.
So it is used as a queue.
Similarly I am using it as a stack.
So I created an array of integer you can create of a string or any other object I created as an integer.
For example, new array dk and I'm adding at one 510 at first, at first at first, so first one, then
at first five, then at first ten.
So it is adding at first and while deletion from the array dk as a stack, I am removing the first.
So the element which was added at last.
Later it is removed first.
So you got it right.
The same DK can be used as a queue, can use it as a stack and array.
DK is has all the methods which we have discussed.
It just provide an implementation.
Okay.
So here let's talk about the time complexity here.
So what is the insertion time complexity of array DK so now you have an array DK.
If you want to insert an element.
So insertion can be done at first or insertion can be done at last.
Okay.
So if you want to insert an element at first it would be big O of one.
If you want to insert an element at last it would be again big O of one.
So when we say that hey amortized.
Amortized means most of the time.
Or you can say that the average complexity is O of one, except few cases.
So when we can say that when the time complexity of insertion is greater than big O of one.
Now let's say you have a queue and its size is full already, and now you are trying to insert at first
or last.
Doesn't matter.
You are trying to insert any element.
Let's say I'm trying to insert at last, but this queue is almost full.
Now internally resize happens now internally what happens is resize resize happen.
And when resize happen, what it will do is it will create a new queue of double the size.
Copy the elements here.
Right and point to this new queue.
So in some use cases when the like, one of the use case is when the queue is full, it creates a new
queue copy the element.
In that case, insertion time complexity is big O of n.
That's why we say for array dequeue amortized or most of the time.
Or you can say that the average insertion time complexity is O of one.
Because this scenario doesn't happen most of the time it will like okay, you have done 1000 insertion.
After that you might have to do this thing.
Okay.
So here if you see that Uh, let's see the array.
This interface.
The initial capacity is set as eight.
Okay.
And when it grows, let's say this capacity is, uh, full.
What it will do is it will double the capacity.
So it has the logic.
So in every add element.
So there would be an add add method or any add method, it will first check hey if it is full then it
will double the capacity.
So here if you double the capacity, if you see that first it will copy the elements into the new element
with the greater capacity and then copy the data from the old queue from the new queue only in that
cases your time complexity is of insertion is big O of N, but on an average most of the time it.
That's why it is known as amortized complexity is big O of one Deletion is big O of one here.
Either we delete from the first or last.
So time complexity is big O of one.
Only searching is here.
You can say that big O of one generally.
So searching here in the sense is the peaking examine operation.
Either we do get examine get first peek first get last peek last.
So that is big O of one itself okay.
And the space complexity is big O of N if you have n elements.
So you require this much space.
So this is the time complexity is of your array dequeue okay.
Now understand one thing like okay we have uh seen the priority queue and the array dequeue okay.
So now let's see the difference once.
So array queue is is it thread safe.
No.
Array queue is also not thread safe.
Array dequeue is also not thread safe.
I'll tell you how we can implement.
It's a thread safe.
When I tell thread safe, what does it mean is let's say you have one queue.
Let's say this is your queue and multiple threads are trying to access it.
Thread one, thread two, multiple threads are trying to update it.
Then your queue would might be an inconsistent state.
Somebody is inserting, somebody is removing, somebody is adding.
Your queue will be like you can say that inconsistent state.
So it is not thread safe.
If you are using any queue in a multi-threaded environment, you should avoid using priority queue array
dequeue.
If multiple threads can access the same queue because they are not thread safe.
Okay, how we can implement the thread safe?
I will tell you.
The second part is maintains the insertion order priority queue.
Does it maintain the insertion order?
No, because I told you it is based on heap data structure.
So in heap data structure, either it will have a min heap or max heap.
So even if you are inserting like two five, if you are implementing max heap.
So it will be like five two internally it saw it do sorting so it doesn't maintain the insertion order.
But your array dequeue maintains the insertion order.
So the way you insert in the queue it will go as it is like this 1234 it maintain the insertion order.
Okay.
Priority queue null elements allowed.
No, you cannot insert null elements inside a priority queue.
And similarly in the array dequeue you cannot insert null element.
You can't do uh dot add and put null.
No that is not allowed.
Duplicate elements allowed.
Yes.
You can add duplicate element in the array.
Dequeue.
Yes you can add duplicate elements.
What is the Threadsafe version of this now priority queue.
So for the priority queue, the Threadsafe version is priority blocking queue.
Priority blocking queue.
So let's say if your queue is being used by multiple threads then you should start using priority blocking
queue.
So I'm creating a priority blocking queue here.
And the same as adding an element.
And I'm doing a peek.
So here priority queue.
If I don't assign anything what it would be.
Can you answer in the comment section what it would be.
It would be Minheap.
And for Maxheap you have to provide a compare here, the comparator or comparable like so you have to
provide certain comparator for it.
Similarly for array dequeue it's Threadsafe version is current concurrent linked dequeue.
So you can use concurrent linked dequeue Right.
And you can add add first, add last, do whatever the same methods which we have seen into the array
DK right.
These all methods, the same methods which we can use, but you can use that.
It's a it's a threadsafe version of array DK.
So here we'll see you concurrent linked DK so here I'll show you the concurrent linked DK.
So it will say that.
Concurrent insertion removal access operation execute safely across multiple threads.
Right.
So it implements DK only.
So it's a version.
You can say that uh the thread safe version of array DK.
You can use it if it your, your queue is being shared by multiple threads okay.
So array DK is clear right.
So now let's move to the list.
So now till now we have covered iterable collections queue priority queue dequeue, array dequeue and
their concurrent version also.
Now let's come on another topic which is your list.
Okay.
Now let's say what is list.
When we say that list list you will always say that okay.
It is an ordered collection of objects in which duplicate values can be stored.
Then you can ask hey, collection of object is also there into the queue here in the queue also we can
have collections of objects.
Then how it is different from the list, right?
How list is different from the queue because in the queue also we can store the duplicate values.
So how it is different from the queue?
Let me tell you.
How does it different from the Q?
Q is also a collection of object, but in Q insertion removal access can only happen either at the start
or end of the q, right.
So if it is a Q you can add an item at the start.
You can add an item at the last, you can remove an item from the start, or you can remove an item
from the last.
But in the list data can be inserted, removed or accessed from anywhere.
Anywhere, right?
So it is based on index 012345.
Let's say you want to insert at index three.
So it will insert an item here.
Also you want to remove an index five.
It will remove this index.
So data can be inserted, removed or accessed from anywhere because this is based on a data structure
And so in data structures.
Uh, so this is a Java.
So this is a collection list is a collection.
But internally what data structure is used is an array.
So in array you know that it has an index.
And you can access any element through the index.
Okay.
So list uses that array data structure internally and which help us to achieve insertion removal access
from anywhere.
So in list user can decide whether to insert or access using index starting from zero.
So index is starting from 00123456.
Like this.
Okay.
So now let's see the interface of list what all the methods are present inside a list.
So what.
All the methods will present all the methods which are present in collection, plus certain new methods
which are provided by the list.
Let's see that.
So methods which is available in collection interface.
This one, so I have already covered the collection, so I just copy paste it here so that you will
recall.
Okay.
These are the methods which are available in collection.
So methods available in the collection interface plus new methods defined in the list interface.
Okay.
So these were the methods which we have already seen.
These are the part of the collection interface.
So this plus new method.
So these are the new methods in the list interface now.
So let's see that one collection one you already know that add remove.
So this is already we have seen an example while we see the collections.
Right.
So what are the new methods which are available in the list interface.
So there are around let's see that the first method is add.
So in the add if you see that index and element what does it see insert then.
So let's say this is your array list
0123456.
This is your list.
You want to insert ad at index.
Let's say for element is your nothing but an object.
Let's say you want to store an object 100.
So at fourth index it will add 100.
So insert the element at the specific position in the list.
If there is an element present at that position it shifted to the right.
What does it mean.
Let's say if this your element is already full.
This is your element.
Your list is already full.
And if you see that hey, add four index four.
And the element I want to insert is let's say uh -100 now.
So at index four there is already an element present.
So what it will do is it will.
Do like this.
01234567.
So.
Right.
So at forth it will put the element which you wanted to insert -100 at index four.
Here I have 123.
Certain certain value let's say 800.
Right now at four index I have put -100.
So now what it will do.
If there is any element present at that position it will shift to the right.
So it will shift to the right.
So 100 will go here 900 will go at this index certain 200 will go at this index.
So it will put an element on that particular index.
And whatever the element which are present at this and any subsequent elements, it will move to the
right.
Move to the right okay.
Similarly add all at this index.
Add another collection.
So in I have told you in the collection part, right?
Add all.
It will just add a collection at the last.
But here in the list add all is at this index at the all collection.
So let's say you have collection one let's say list 11234.
You have list two.
567801230123.
Now you are saying that hey, I want to add list to at least one at index two.
So what I'm doing is add all index two.
Add this collection list two.
So what it will do is in the list one.
It will add one two.
At index two it will add this elements now 5678.
So this is your from index to 012.
From this index, it will insert this collection values and all the subsequent values of this collection,
and on this index it will be shifted to right.
So after this eight it would be three and seven okay.
Replace all.
So I'll tell you with an example how replace all works.
Sort sorting.
So sort will happen like you know already comparator I have already explained in the depth.
You can sort the list get particular index.
So it will return the element which is present at that particular index set.
So what does set this.
So now you need to understand the difference between add and set.
When you add an element at an index particular index.
And if any value is present at that position it shifts to the right okay.
So hundred was there and at the same position you put -100, so it will put -100, but it shift 100
to the right.
But in the set it won't shift it replace.
So it will change 100 to -100.
Okay.
So that is the difference between set and add.
So we will see that example.
Also remove it will remove an element from the particular index.
But it will also shift the subsequent element to the left.
So if you remove this so there is like one space empty.
So it will shift the element to the left index of particular object.
So returns the index of the first occurrence of the specified element in the list.
As you know, that list can store duplicate items.
And if you are trying to look for a particular object let's say five, right?
Then it will find the first occurrence.
And if it doesn't find that element, it will return minus one.
Similarly, we have one method last index of.
So it will the last occurrence of that element.
So this is the first occurrence.
Last occurrence.
Then we have a iterator.
So here if you remember in the collection we have something called iterator.
Yeah.
You remember like here in the iterator there is something called iterator which helps us to iterate.
Similarly here one more method is exposed in the list is list iterator.
Okay.
So in the list iterator.
So in the iterator it was having this Hasnext next removed.
So there's list iterator returns an object of list iterator okay.
So this list iterator method list iterator method which is present into the list interface.
Returns the object of this list iterator.
So this list iterator is a child of iterator only.
So you remember.
If you can recall the iterator has.
This method has.
Next next remove.
Okay.
And now list iterator.
So this is your iterator.
This is your list iterator.
So it has this method okay.
So now list iterator will also have this method has next next plus it is also added new method is like
has previous previous next index previous index set and add.
So I'll tell you the crux of this one is so what it helps us is whatever the list you have with the
iterator methods has next.
Next it helps you to iterate in forward direction, but list iterator.
This list iterator expose certain method which help you to iterate in backward direction of the list.
So it has method like has previous similar to hasnext.
So like your pointer is here.
Has previous.
Does it has any element.
Yes.
Then previous it goes to previous section right.
So it goes like this.
You can iterate in the opposite direction backward direction.
So with an example I will explain you how this iterator works right by the examples I will show you.
But first understand that there is a method in the list interface, which is list iterator method which
returns an object of list iterator class.
And this class is nothing but a child of a iterator, which has the method of the iterator which has
which helps on moving forward direction.
It also introduced certain methods, which helps us to iterate in the backward direction with an example
we will see after this when I show you an example.
List iterator with an index I will tell you the example like what is the use of this one?
And there is something called sub list.
So from index to two index from index it is inclusive two index.
It is exclusive.
So let's say this is your list.
01234I have given from indexes let's say uh one two indexes.
Let's say four.
So 1 to 4.
So this four uh from index is inclusive.
So elements from this and this is exclusive.
This is not so only this index.
So fourth index is exclusive.
So only this element you will get one sub list.
Two, three and four.
So this is a sub list.
You can work on it and remember that whenever you work on it, let's say if you are adding an element
after this one.
So ultimately in the main list also this element gets added.
So if you remove an element from here in the main list also it will get removed.
So it's just a sub list.
But any change in sub list will change in the main list also and vice versa.
Okay, we will see all this methods with an example.
It will clarify you more.
So now let's say we have seen what all the methods which are available in list.
Now we need to see the examples of all this method.
So I am using with the ArrayList.
So this is just an interface.
Somebody has to implement it those methods right.
So ArrayList is an concrete class which implement the methods of this.
So I'm showing you the now example of ArrayList and each method working.
Okay.
Now let's see this.
So here.
In what data structure is based on array.
I am creating a simple main method.
I am creating a list one.
Okay, so in the list one what I am adding is I'm using this method.
First add index element.
So now let's say list there would be some initial capacity.
Let's say 012345678.
Whenever you create an ArrayList there would be some initial capacity.
Uh would be.
So now you are adding an element at index zero element 100.
so index zero.
I'm adding 100 index one.
Adding 200 index three.
Adding 300 and index two.
Adding 300.
Okay.
This method is clear.
It should be working like this.
That at particular index that element is added.
Now what I am doing is I am creating add all particular index collection.
See.
So I'm creating a list too.
So this was list one.
Now I am creating a list two.
012012.
400 500 600.
So it has 400 500 600.
Now what I am doing is I am doing add all list one.
Add all at what index two.
So at this index.
I am adding the list to, so this list will be changed to your list.
One would be changed to 100.
012345.
So zero.
So at index two I want to insert right.
So at index two this list two would be added.
Now 400 500 600.
And this element would be shifted to right total.
Right.
So it would be 300 okay.
Now let's print this list one.
Now I'm just printing this list one dot for each.
I'm just printing this.
So it should print like this 100 200 100 200 then 400 500 600 and last 300 okay.
So these two methods clear right now.
See another method replace all unary operator.
So here if you see that in the array list I will show you that.
In the array list there is a method called replace all replace all.
It has unary operator.
So this unary operator, if you see that it's a functional interface it's a functional interface.
So means what we can do at here is what I'm doing here.
Just see that.
This list list one dot replace all.
Now replace all takes what it takes you a functional interface.
So this functional interface I can use the lambda expression.
You already know how to use a lambda expression right.
You already know how to use the lambda expression.
So for this one, replace all.
Now I'm passing a lambda expression that.
For each value of the list.
For each value of the list 100 200, 400.
Right.
What you should do is so here, if you see that replace all, what it will do is it will iterate over
for loop.
It will iterate over for loop.
So means whatever the list you are passing, it will iterate item by item 100, 200, 400, 500, 600,
300.
And it will pass to the method of this functional interface.
So what is the method dot apply.
So this is the functional interface method.
It will pass and its implementation.
We can give it here what it should do okay.
So here what I have done is for each elements of the list what function I wanted is for each value multiply
it with minus one.
Multiply it with minus one.
So here.
This replace all internally will iterate over each items of a list and multiply it with minus one.
So this list one you are changed to like -100, -200, -400, -500, -600, -300.
And I'm just printing out here.
After replace all it, just print the negative of the above list.
If you don't know the functional lambda expression you might face a like how it worked.
So please check out the functional interface Lambda expression video.
So here if you see that replace all.
Generally we did nothing replace all method.
Iterate internally.
Iterate over this list and pass calls the method of the functional interface.
Then we can provide the implementation using Lambda okay replace all.
Similarly, the sorting is already should be clear to you that when we are calling this method list
dot sort.
Sort method is there.
You can pass the comparator.
So I am passing the comparator value one value two.
Value one.
Value two.
So can you tell in the comment which sorting I am doing?
Value one.
Value two.
It would be the increasing order sorting right?
So now I am just printing it again after sorting.
So if you see that after sorting in increasing order, so it will sort it to the increasing order -600,
-500 and all.
Okay.
So sort method is also very straightforward.
You can use a comparator.
We have already discussed.
That's why we discussed the comparator first so that we know that how the comparator comparator works
generally.
Similarly there is one more method get right.
So you can use the list dot get.
Let's say you want to see the element which is present at index two.
Index two.
What element is present 012 -400.
So it will return -400.
Then I'm using set.
I told you the difference between add and set is set will replace it.
So at index two I'm calling list one dot set.
At index two set it to minus four 4000.
So index two it was 400.
400.
It will change it to -4000.
I'm just printing out each element.
So here if you see that it changed to 4000.
Now 400 to 4000.
This 400 is not move shifted to right.
It's replaced.
Okay.
So you can see that one here.
Now we can see that is uh, this we have printed now remove.
So I'm removing an element from the index two.
So index two was present 4000.
I am removing it.
And what will happen is it will move the element left shift.
Okay.
So in the left shift.
So I've removed the element which is present at index two.
Remove list one dot.
Remove index two.
Now I am printing each element.
So after removing if you see that this element has been removed and 300 200.
This move to the left shifted left.
Okay then index off.
So here index of -200 integer object is.
So I'm checking list one dot index of -200.
So in this list where does uh -200 lies in.
So it's 0123 index three Okay.
So the first occurrence index of returns, the first occurrence if there are multiple 200 and you want
the last occurrence.
So you can use the last occurrence, last uh last occurrence of.
Right.
So there was last index of last index of.
Okay.
Now let's see the iterator.
This is very important right.
So now I am calling list one dot list iterator okay.
So here let me first tell you the forward direction.
Then I will tell you how to move the reverse direction.
So list one dot list iterator.
So list iterator is generally considered that this is your list currently.
Uh what's your list currently is uh here -600, -500 300 200.
So -600.
-500.
-300, -200, and -100.
So this is your current present list.
And I am first traversing forward direction.
So list one dot list iterator.
So it will return the method or object of list iterator.
Now you know that this list iterator has is a child of iterator class.
So it also has.
This method has next next remove right.
So here during the forward I can use this list iterator.
So your head would be here currently has next.
Yes it has certain value.
So I did dot next.
So it will return 600 and put the pointer to here return 600.
Right.
And now I am doing traversing forward.
The value was -600.
So forward here.
Where is the forward.
So it returns the forward okay.
Next index.
So here if you see that list iterator has one more method called next index.
So it will tell that index of the next element.
So 01234.
What is the index of the next element is one.
So it will return next index is one previous index.
So there is one more method which has previous index.
Previous index.
What is the element index of the previous element.
So your current cursor is here.
So previous index is zero so it will return zero okay.
So uh similarly I will just forget this method.
I will tell you why I have added it.
But just understand iterator.
Just recall it.
It's like how usual we used to do it into the iterator I will do next.
Yes it has value.
It will do dot next.
So it will cursor will move to here.
It will return 500.
So value is now 500.
Next index is your two.
Previous index is your one.
So 500 next index is two.
Previous index is one.
Similarly I will do hash next.
Yes it has I will do dot next.
So it will return the this -300.
And it will move the cursor to the next one.
So your next index is three.
Previous index is two.
And the value it returned was 300.
Okay now it will say that hey again has next yes value.
It has.
So what it will do dot next.
So it will return 200.
Now your value is -200.
Sorry -200.
And the cursor will come over here.
Now what is your next index.
Next index is Four minus four and your previous.
So let's say this value is -200.
Your cursor is here.
Your next index is four.
Previous is your three.
Okay.
Now one thing I did I have put one check if value equals to -200.
Yes.
Now value is -200.
What I am doing is I am adding using this one.
In the list iterator there is one more method add object.
So what it will do is it will insert the element immediately before the element that would be returned
by the next and after the element that would be returned by the previous.
Okay.
So what does it mean is.
So your cursor is currently at present here its next element would be this index -100 and previous would
be this three right current value.
It return is this.
Next is four.
Previous is three.
So when I'm doing add so where it would add this element.
So what it will do is it will add element like this.
So here.
01234567 -600 -500 -300 -200.
Your cursor is at this point currently okay.
Your next is 100 -100.
So what it will do is this add -100.
What it will do is it will put it over here.
Just just between this what it says that insert the specified element immediately before the element
that would be returned by the x.
So what would be the element that would be returned by this only it will return next this.
So before that.
So it will add the element before that and after the previous one.
So after 200.
So if I do dot previous if I call this method dot previous.
So what it will return this cursor.
So this cursor previous is this.
Next is this.
And when I am doing add it will add it.
Just between this it will create one more space between it and add it.
Okay.
So here one thing you should notice that now when the next item I will do.
Okay.
So here let's say that it okay.
It was -50 right.
So here okay.
In the backward direction I have said -50 okay.
So let's assume that this is the current list.
So because we thought that we will do the backward after after uh this one.
So let's say this is the list -600.
-500.
-300
-200 and -50.
Because I, I have reached to the first forward direction, we have skipped this two methods where we
are setting the 50.
Okay, so but wanted to tell you the first forward direction.
So this is the current list okay.
And currently our cursor was here.
Let's see cursor was here where this is the next.
This is the previous.
And when I am doing while iterating when I am doing, add during the iterator.
Okay, so where it will add, it will add like this 200.
What I am adding -100 value.
So -100 -50.
So it will add before the next element that would be returned and after the previous.
So between this it will add okay.
So that's how it will add it in this one.
Now see this part.
Now let's say I am going iterator dot has next.
Yes.
So it will do next element.
So what it will return next.
Because now I have added -100.
So will it return this.
No the next element would be -50 only.
So the next is not impacted.
So that's why the definition of this says that it Insert the specific element immediately before the
element that would be returned by the next.
Before that, and after the element that would be returned by the previous subsequent calls to Net would
not affect it.
So just consider this like that.
So this is your cursor right.
So it would add it somewhere here.
-100.
So your cursor is still whenever you do next it will return -50.
Only it will not just do -100.
But if you do previous now previous is now your -100.
If I do previous now it will return -100, not 200.
I hope that's clear.
Okay.
So this is the very basic forward direction.
Move with that.
Now let me tell you how to traverse the backward direction.
Okay.
So you should be now clear that the cursor part of it And the backward direction is very, very similar.
It's the same part, but the previous method like here we have has next next there we have has previous
previous.
So before backward direction.
What was the list.
Uh traversing backward.
This was the list okay.
-600 -500 321.
So here -600 -500 -300 -200 -100.
This is the list.
So now I want to traverse this list backward.
So now what I have done first.
So here if you see that list one dot list iterator.
If I don't pass anything in the constructor where the head would be at start.
If I want to start the from the backward direction, I want to move this cursor to the back and how
can I move it to the back internally?
Give it the size.
index where you want to start.
So if you give the total size, the index would be at end.
Okay.
But if you want to start from a particular index you can put a particular index also 321 like from where
you want to start.
If you want to start from the end, give the size of the list so it will.
Your cursor would now be at end.
Okay, so now let's say that my cursor I have put it to the end.
Now I am doing has previous.
Yes there is an element has previous dot previous.
So it would return the previous element which is -100.
Okay.
So your previous element is I did dot previous right.
So now your cursor move to here your cursor move to here.
So this is your now next.
This is your now previous.
So hundred.
Next index is 401234 and previous is now three.
Okay, so currently I am doing okay if previous element is equals to equals to -100.
Yes.
Previous element or the value I have written was -100.
What I am doing is I am doing list iterator dot set -50.
So what does set does?
Here in the list iterator, replace the last element returned by next or previous with the specified
element return.
Replace the last element return.
What is the last element returned here?
-100.
Right, so it will set it to -50.
Okay, now I am again iterating has previous.
Yes it has.
So it will do list iterator dot previous.
So it will return the element -200 and put the cursor to here.
Okay.
So it will return the element -200.
Your next index is three.
Previous is two.
Like this.
It will go like this.
It will go.
And after that I am just printing the list.
So now what would be the list would be -600, -500, -300, -200.
And here if you see that -50.
Okay.
So I think this method should be clear like of the list iterator methods which are available has previous.
So this has previous previous is used to helps to iterate into the backward direction.
If you want to move to the forward direction you can use the iterator methods, which are also present
into the list iterator.
Set and add is used if you want to insert an element in the mid right.
Cool.
Now let's see.
Understand the time complexity of the array list.
So big O of one when inserting the element at the end of an array.
Okay, so if you want to insert an element.
So this is just an array right.
123 you will say that hey add an element at index 0123.
So three is empty.
You can simply add it in a big O of one.
But when the big O of N will come, when the inserting the element at a particular index of an array
then requires shifting of the value.
So now let's say you have this array.
Index 12345 and you want to insert at index three, you want to insert a particular element.
So you when you add it let's say you add seven here.
So you do right shifting of all the other element.
Then it would be big O of n.
Similarly there is a use case when you have to resize.
If that is full and you want to insert an element at the end, you can't do it.
You have to create a new array of bigger size.
Then copy that 123456 and then add it.
So again it's a big O of N.
Okay.
How much time deletion takes big O of n?
If you delete any element, you have to do left shift of the remaining subsequent elements.
That's why it is big O of N.
How much searching time?
Big O of one.
You can do a particular index directly.
Go to that part.
But if you have to traverse and find out an element that's big O of N, but if you know the index,
it can fetch the value in big O of one.
If space complexity is big O of N, right?
The same.
Similarly, like an array.
So is ArrayList.
Is thread safe?
No, this is also not thread safe.
Can array maintain insertion order?
Yes.
The way you insert it, you can also get an item into the same order also.
It's possible.
Can null elements allowed into ArrayList?
Yes, you can add null values.
Duplicate elements allowed.
Yes, you can add a duplicate values also.
But what is the thread?
Thread safe version.
The thread safe version of array is copy on write ArrayList.
Copy on write ArrayList.
Exactly the same method.
What we have read into the array, but the name is copy on array.
This one copy on here.
If you see that copy on array.
A thread safe variant of ArrayList in which all mutable Mutative operations at set are implemented by
making a fresh copy of the underlying array.
So if multiple threads are working on it, it takes care of it.
So this is the thread safe version of the array list copy on write array list.
Okay so this part is also we have completed array list.
Now let's see linked list.
So from the diagram it is very clear that linked list implements list and dequeue.
Can you tell me what two functionalities are linked list will have.
So since it has implemented the dequeue interface then means it has the capability to add first and
last, remove first, remove last methods, and it is also a child of a list.
Interface means it will also do like add.
Provide me the index.
There I will add an element remove provide me the index.
So indexing based and even the first and last it has both the capability.
So here if you see that in the linked list part data structure which is used is linked list.
Right.
The collection name is also the same.
But don't get confused.
Data structure is linked list.
The collection name is linked list also.
So generally you know that how the linked list data structure is that you have an object, or you can
say that it has a pointer to the next memory.
Then it has a pointer to the next memory.
It has a pointer to the next memory like this.
So it implement both dequeue DQ and list so IT support DQ method like get first, get last, remove
first, remove last, etc. and it also support index based operation like get index add index.
Like this.
Let's see an example of it.
Let's say I want to use a linked list as a DQ functionality.
So here what I am trying to do is that I am doing add last.
So you have a list I have five.
Now you want to add last so I can add last.
Let's say I want to add four.
Then I can do add last.
Let's say 300.
So it is adding 300.
So earlier it was 200.
So at last so earlier list is empty.
So it was 200.
Pointer would be null.
Then I am adding at last 300.
So it will add a pointer of those 300 300 would have the next pointer null.
Then it would add last 400.
It will create a node 400, put it null and it will add last.
Change it to this at first 100 so it will create a node 100.
Put this pointer to this one.
Now I am doing get first.
So get first.
What it would be 100 only.
So similarly you can use functionality options also here.
So here if you see that index is there zero.
This is one.
This is two this is three.
Now what I am doing is I'm creating another list.
Index zero 100.
Index one 300.
So it will for index zero it will point to this index two 400.
Index two 400.
So index one it will point to this.
Now I am saying index one 200.
So in the index one it will put 200.
So here what it will do is it will create a node 200.
Right.
So index this this is your index one.
Right.
So this pointer would be now this this would be pointing to this.
So your list would be like 100 pointing to 200 200 pointing to 300 300 pointing to 400.
And there is nothing after that one.
So 0123.
So at one I added 200 okay.
So now I am just doing get.
Even though it's a linked list I am able to get by index get one.
So at index one what is the element 200 right.
And what is the item at index two 300.
So here if you see that with the linked list I am able to perform both the dequeue operation and list
operation.
What is the time complexity?
First of all, it is faster than ArrayList because why?
White is faster than ArrayList.
Because you don't have to do shifting.
You don't have to do shifting.
Okay, so when you are inserting at linked list how much time it takes.
It will.
If you are inserting at the start or end, it will take big O of one.
Let's say you have this list.
If you have to insert at end, you will just create node.
Add it.
If you want to start at front you will just create node, add it.
Done.
But if you want an insertion at a particular index how it will do.
So it will.
Insertion is big O of one.
Let's say you want to insert between this.
It will do this and it will change the linking.
Now instead of this will point to this, this will point to this.
But since it's a linked list, it has to traverse for the lookup of that index.
So it will go here then iterate.
So that's why it say that big O of N plus, big O of N for lookup for the index and zero of one for
the adding search big O of N, because in linked list you have to traverse from start head pointer pointer
deletion at start or end big O of one deletion at index zero of n for the lookup for that particular
index, and zero of one for the removal removal.
You can just remove the linking and point it, but you have to go to that position right.
So that it takes big O of N space complexity is big O of N.
So is it thread safe?
No linked list is also not thread safe.
Okay, so here if you see that uh, generally does it maintain the insertion order.
Yes.
It maintain the insertion order.
Null elements allowed.
Yes.
Null elements are allowed.
Duplicate element allows.
Yes.
You can even restore the duplicate elements also.
Okay.
So now here if you see that right.
As part of the linked list.
It has both this functionality array dequeue array list.
Right.
But if you see that generally these are not thread safe.
That's where we have another call this vector which is thread safe.
Right.
It is exactly same as array list.
But only difference is here I will show you vector.
It is exactly same as array.
List elements can be accessed via indexed but it is thread safe.
Array list is not thread safe.
And to have a thread safe array list you need a copy on write right separately, but for vector it is
already a thread safe.
It puts a lock when operation is performed on a vector, so it is less efficient than ArrayList.
Okay, so here if you see that inside a vector, this is the vector class.
All the methods, all the methods like add all exactly same as ArrayList.
No difference right.
So let's see its any operation.
Okay.
Let's say index of it is also synchronized.
Last index of synchronize.
Okay.
Just any any method it has synchronized.
So it put a lock everywhere.
So remove element synchronize.
So whereas add element here so add element.
So here if you see that it is also synchronized.
Okay.
So here we have add operation.
So add it is also synchronized.
So all the methods in vector is thread safe means it is synchronized.
So it put lock and lock unlock internally.
So that's why it is very less efficient than ArrayList okay.
And exactly you can create a vector like this vector the same.
And you can add similarly like ArrayList you can work but this is thread safe.
So vector is thread safe.
Yes.
Maintains insertion order.
Yes.
Null element allowed.
Yes.
Duplicate element allowed.
Yes.
Thread safe version.
You don't need it itself.
Is a thread safe?
Right.
And if you see that we have something called here.
Stack.
Stack is a child of vector.
Why?
Because here, if you see that, you can ask me.
Hey, Shreyansh, with the help of DK itself, we can implement the stack.
Then why this stack is separately needed?
So if you remember that DK is not thread safe, but stack is.
Stack is thread safe.
Why?
Because it's a child of vector, right?
And the same functionality is also brings on each operation.
It put a synchronized method.
So it represents a leaf operation.
Since it extend vector method is also kind of a synchronized right.
So you can have create a stack like this stack.
And you can do push.
You can do pop right.
The same behavior which you can also achieve through DK.
But your DK is not thread safe and your stack is.
So here this is a stack.
Here it do push inside a push.
Here it is.
Synchronized.
So exactly the same part.
Exactly the same thing.
It is doing it.
Okay, so only difference is stack is thread safe.
But with the DK, if you do a implement the stack that is not thread safe.
What is the time complexity of the stack insertion?
Big O of one.
It will always add on top in big O of one deletion.
Always delete from the top big O of one search.
If you have to search a particular element.
Big O of n space complexity n, so stack is thread safe.
Maintains insertion order.
No, it does not maintain an insertion order.
If you add one, two, three, and if you want one to go out first, no it won't happen.
So insertion order maintains.
But if you see that.
The way you insert it and the way you get, that's not the same Okay, so that's our stack.
I would say that it maintain the insertion order.
You can little bit more elaborate this know the way we stored.
Yes it maintain the insertion order.
But if you take out the items from the stack it will not follow the way it is inserted.
Okay.
Null element allowed.
Yes.
Duplicate element allowed.
Yes.
Is it?
What is the Threadsafe version?
Not needed.
The stack itself.
Is the thread safe?
Okay, so we have covered array dequeue Linkedlist list ArrayList vector stack okay.
In the next video I will cover this part and then stream.
And then we will cover this okay okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
Any question any doubt please feel free to comment and write.
And sorry for the voice.
Uh thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Collections in Java - Part4 | HashMap Internal Working in Java ---

Hey guys, welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And till now in collections we have done queues list iterable collection.
And you might be thinking that next we're gonna start with set right.
But know before even learning this set we have to complete a very important topic which is map.
Because in set internally we use map only.
So we have a hash set which internally use hash map.
We have linked hash set which internally use linked hash map.
And we have three set which internally use tree map.
So until and unless this map is not cleared we cannot even understand how set is working.
Okay, so I am first starting with the hash map, uh map and we will go to the set after this one okay.
So now let's start with the map.
And one thing.
Remember that this is the most important topic.
Hash HashMap design HashMap.
Very important and popular interview questions from the Java perspective.
Right, so.
But first thing should comes to your mind that hey Shreyansh, why the map is not a child of collections.
We know that list is a child of connection.
Stack Linkedlist queue set.
Everything is child of collection.
Then why not map?
Because till now in collection, if you see all the methods which are available, it's particularly
deal with one value.
They have a list of values.
Value one, value two, value three, value four.
Like this.
And the methods which they provide.
They provide all the methods with through which we can work on this list of, or set of or stack of
values.
But in map we have key value All the values we can map to a particular key.
So we have a key value mapping.
So it require total different methods as the functionality is now changed.
So that's why all the methods which are available in collection is of kind of no use for the map.
Right.
So there is no point of bringing the map under the collection, as collection is just value and map
is deal with key value.
We will see more deeper like how the key value things happen.
Okay.
So now let's start with the map first.
So what are the map property.
So it is an interface.
Yes this is an interface blue one.
And these are all its concrete methods.
Or you can say that the implementations.
Okay.
So its implementations are this.
So object that map keys to values.
So this map helps us to create an objects either of hash map hash table linked hash map tree Treemap
through which we can store the data in key value form.
So you have one key and then you have value.
So you can have like this one as j two some j something like this.
Key value.
Let's say this is row number and this is student name something like this.
So key value pair okay.
Can not contain duplicate key.
So one of the thing is in this thing value can be duplicate.
So let's say I have say row number three.
It is also nickname is also possible.
So value can be duplicate but keys cannot be duplicate.
If you try to insert one more uh duplicate key, let's say one is already there.
So you will try to say that hey, put one comma some MJ so it will overwrite at whatever the key is
one it will overwrite the value.
Now MJ so at any point of time the duplicate key cannot exist inside a map key value, only one key
can be present.
Okay, so with that being said.
So there are.
Since this is a new interface not a collections.
So there are a lot of new methods you will find.
Right.
There are so many methods.
So I have list down all the popular and most frequently used methods.
Okay.
And see this part I am going to go very much in depth of HashMap okay.
So prepare for it.
So just this methods right.
Have little bit things like okay I will go each method with an example.
But let me first till sixth, let me tell you.
And then I will dig more deeper into the HashMap.
And then we'll come back again.
Okay.
There is a reason I will tell you sequentially we will go.
So first is sys method which is exposed here.
So what does size matter?
Size method name is okay.
So what it returns.
It returns the number of key value mapping present.
So inside a particular map you have one some sj two cx three pj something four.
So this is known as mapping key value mapping.
So the size will return here for how many key value mapping present is empty.
If your map is totally empty it will return.
True.
If map even has one key and value, it will return false.
It is not empty.
Contains key.
So if you perform this method contains key and you pass the key.
Let's say I am doing contains key two.
Yes, two is there so it will return true.
If let's say I do five.
doesn't even exist here, so it will return false.
Then here we have a get and put method.
Okay, so if you learn very high level right you would be tell that okay get is used to fetch the data.
Put is used to insert the data for example here in this case if I do let's say this is a map is m.
If I do m dot get give me the two what it will return the value which is present for this key.
So what is this present let's say k.
K is present let's say.
So it will return me value k.
This is the output.
So it will return.
This get method will return me the value which is present against this key.
Okay two what is the key.
Two and what the value is k.
So it will return that value.
So put put is used to insert the value in the map.
Okay.
So let's say this is the map I'm doing.
Put two comma j.
So what it will do is it will first check.
Hey two present or not.
If two is not present it will insert.
This is the key.
And this is the value j right.
And if it already exists let's say it want to insert three with j one.
So now it will say that hey three already exists or not three already exists.
Now whatever the value it was already exist.
It will overwrite.
So S would be overwrite with j one.
Okay.
So now I will stop here because this is very high level.
And in interview they will go now more deeper that how get and put actually works.
And that's where you should be familiar with the design of an HashMap.
This is very very beginner level.
That's, uh, generally you would say that.
Yes.
When you do play with a method, you will see that, yes, it might be starting like this, but that's
not all.
Now let's go into the design part of the map, which is very important how the actual data is stored,
how actual the data is fetched, how actual the put method and how actual the get method is performed.
And for that, we have to know first how data or data structures of hash map is okay.
So I am using an example of hash map first okay, to understand how this works, get input.
So let's see this part I am in the hash map class.
Okay so here in the hash map.
Up what we have few things we have to know.
First is.
What is load factor?
Another thing we have to know is.
The entry.
Interface.
And third is.
Rehashing.
And fourth is performance.
So let's first understand these four things in a hashing.
Right.
Uh in a map.
So first let's say that in a map interface.
Right.
In a map interface.
Apart from this method you will find another called entry.
This is a sub interface.
So this is the.
Ah entry.
So this is the where is the map?
Yeah.
So this is a map right.
Map interface.
This is your see this is your map interface.
Inside a map interface you will find something called entry interface sub interface.
So this is a sub interface entry.
What.
So now you should.
Hey why we have a sub interface here.
What is the purpose of it.
I'll tell you the purpose of it.
So let's see any implementation.
So this is an interface.
There is no implementation here.
So we have to look at one of the concrete implementation of it.
So I'm taking HashMap.
So now here understand this part is that.
How HashMap stores the data is you have an array.
This is an array.
Array of.
Entry key.
Comma value.
This is a generic so key can be of your integer string value can be integer string or anything.
Right.
So it's an array of.
Right.
Array of entry this thing okay.
Then what what does entry key has.
So now here.
So now let's see HashMap.
What does it has.
So now I am here inside a HashMap.
So now here if you see that what we have is now node which is implement dot entry.
So see I told you entry is a sub interface.
You can't access the sub interface directly.
You have to access with the parent map dot interface.
We have already seen in the interface uh topic.
So we have to implement it right entry.
So in the HashMap it is called node key.
So you can say that it is a no code cave array, right?
So this entry cave is generally present into a map.
So in HashMap we have created a node kV which implements it because this is an interface in the map.
So we need an implementation part okay.
So what does it has.
So see it has four things.
It has four things.
One is hash.
Key.
Value.
Next.
So next is again node kv.
So it will can point to a similar one.
I'll tell you how it is used.
So again it would be as like a hash key value.
Next like this, it will have.
So this is an array.
Okay.
So what should be the size of an array first.
So here if you see that where is this node array.
They have defined this here node array.
And they have given a name table.
So first we have to decide the hash table size right.
If you don't define any size if you just create like this let's say I'm creating map I'm creating a
map of let's say my key is integer value is a string.
Uh, some x, y, z object name equals to new hash map.
That's all right.
I am creating new HashMap and not defining anything.
So what would be the default size of this table would be.
So here it has mentioned all the default things.
Let's see here.
Okay.
So default initial capacity 16.
So it will create an initial capacity of 16.
So let's say 012 till.
15.
So 0 to 15 is your 16.
So this is also hash hash key value.
Next.
Right.
So this is an array of this object okay.
Node kV.
And each node kV object has this four values.
And if you don't provide a size so by default internally it will create a size of 16.
So like this.
Now you will see that here how it will insert the data here.
So when we say that put one or let's say one comma SJ.
Now how the data is inserted here Okay, now let's see that how it is inserted.
So whenever you call put method so it do perform couple of steps.
So let's do it here itself so that it would be cleaner.
Okay.
So now let's I'm just checking for an example.
I'm creating just A33 size instead of 16.
I'm just taking three size.
So it would be easy for understanding.
So 012.
So it will have hash key value.
Next hash key value next.
Hash key value next.
Okay.
And uh I can provide the while creating the map.
I can even provide the instead I don't have to use the default initial capacity I can provide my.
So let's say I have provided three.
So three is created.
Now let's say I have done a put integer.
So my map HashMap is like this integer comma string.
So this is my key and this is my value because HashMap takes like this.
Generic k comma v.
So first one is k is your key and this is your value.
So key is I have k provided as integer and v is provided as a string okay.
So this is key value.
So now I have to do like let's say store one comma.
And string is let's say SJ how it will store the data here.
So first it will do a step called hash.
Okay.
Now in the hashing what it will do is it will pass the key.
So what is the key here one.
So for one it will compute.
It will compute the hash.
Right.
There are so many hashing algorithms you know, that uh, there is like I think MD 1S2 56.
There are so many hashing algorithm present.
So it we can use that also, or we can write even our uh, something internally.
You can write your own logic also hashing uh method so that for one it give me some value.
Let's say that uh, it gives me value something.
Let's say 1234567 it compute this hash.
Right.
And then what it will do is it will do my Pod size of the table.
What is the size of the table?
Three.
So size of table.
So what would happen is I will get.
The index between this only.
So whatever the hash is got I have to do mod the size of the table so that either it will get ultimately
one of this index only.
Okay.
So now let's say for this one hash was computed as 1234567.
And after I did this 1234567 mod three because three is my size of the table hash table.
So let's say it gives me an index one.
Let's say it give me an index one.
After this mod I the output is one.
So this is my.
Hash.
output.
Right.
So now what I have to do is this value or this I have to store where in this one.
In this part I have to store it index one.
Right.
So now let's say what hash was 1234567.
You can put that 1234567 was my hash that generally the key is important.
So key is your one.
Here value is SJ and the next is currently null.
Okay.
Next is currently null.
So now let's say you are trying to insert another element put five comma PJ.
So what is the next first step.
It will do hash compute the hash of five.
So what it will do is depending upon the algorithm which we are using for hash, it will compute something.
Let's say 984120 something right.
It compute the hash.
And then we have to do mod of size of the hash table.
It's three.
So what would happen is some index will come right relative to this either zero 1 or 2.
For example I am saying that let's say that index come is two.
This is the index which you got.
So means this value now has to be stored at this index.
So it will pick this index whatever the hash come is 982410982410.
The key is your five, the value is your PJ and the next is currently null.
Now you can ask me here what would happen if collision happens.
So there is something what called collision how collision will happen.
So now let's say I am trying to insert ten and trying to put k j.
So now what would be the first step for 1010.
We will try to do hash.
So now let's say comes as uh 515100 right.
After that we have to do mod three the size of the table.
So now let's say index come is one.
So at index one we have to store this element.
But here if you see that hey index one there is already an element present.
How we will store this.
So now what happens inside.
Internally what HashMap will do is it will check.
Hey is this the same key as or same hash already present.
So it will check that hey is same key already present?
No.
Earlier it was one earlier.
I have stored this one.
Now you are trying to insert ten.
So they are not same.
So what it will do is.
So this next right.
It's next of the node itself.
So it will create a new node.
Hash.
It will put as 515100.
Key is your ten.
Value is your k j.
Its next is null.
But this will point to this one.
Okay, so that's how it resolves collision.
Whenever there is a collision happen it checks internally that hey the same key which you are trying
to insert.
The same key which you are trying to insert is already present or not.
If it is already present, it would have overrided.
If not, it stored it right and link it like this.
So similarly it is possible that this list can grow.
This list can grow.
Let's say there are lot of collision.
So let's say whenever you are doing put one comma s, put two comma j, put five comma p, whatever
you are doing all whenever you are computing the hash and whenever you are doing mod the index, let's
say which you are getting is one only.
So all would be inserted like this, right?
One, two and five.
All would be stored like this with next, next next next next.
Like a linked list, right?
So let's say one is already stored.
Ten is uh, let's say this is ten.
Ten is already stored.
So two when two will comes.
So it will also have like this.
So key is two value is let's say j.
Next is let's say something.
It's it's hash.
Whatever it's hash is let's say key is five value is p.
Next is let's say null.
So what I'm trying to say is that internally the first we have a array of this entry key and HashMap
node implement this.
So first we have an array of this entry key which defines the initial capacity of a HashMap.
And once we have defined the initial capacity, what we will do is we will during we will do put we
will insert an element like this.
And whenever there is a collision happen we make a chaining.
Or you can say that we you add it as a linked list okay.
So now remember two things here.
One is load factor.
Another is you can say that uh, you can say that this threshold or three five threshold.
Let me tell you two things.
First let's talk about load factor.
Till now it's clear, right.
How actually the map internally stores the data.
Right.
So you might have linked list kind of here also data okay.
So now let's say first uh before even I go to the load factor.
Let's see what happen if, let's say I do get key.
I want to say that get five.
How it will do so first internally will perform hash okay.
So now it will perform hash.
So hash will return the same data for the five.
Let's say for five it was what it was return.
So we haven't discussed that one for five.
So let's say when we inserted that for five for five when we inserted P here.
Right.
So it the key it came was let's say 616100 something.
So when you do get of five the hash function should generate the same key.
Right.
So I will get again 616100.
The hash function should return the same hash hash key I will do mod the size of the table.
Let's say it is three.
I will get this index.
Let's say one index is one.
So means at this index this five might be present.
Now it will internally iterate internally iterate over this linked list to find out a map.
He will it will see hey is key is equals to equals to five.
No it is one.
Hey key equals to equals to five.
No it is ten.
So it will go to the next.
Then it will go hey key is equals to equals to five.
No it is two.
It will goes to its next.
Hey key equals to equals to five.
Yes it will be return this value p.
So output would be p.
Right.
So you understand how get and put works.
Now you have heard one thing like whenever the get is trying to find a hash of a particular key it should
get a same key.
Why?
There is a contract.
Understand this.
Learn this one contract between.
hashCode and equal method.
Okay, so there are two methods hashCode and equal.
hashCode method is the one which help us to generate the hash.
Equals is a method where we are doing comparison during get.
We are comparing right?
Hey, let's say we want to point a five.
Hey five key is one.
This is five.
Is it equal or not?
This object is equal or not.
Yes, this object is equal.
So equals method to compare the two objects.
But what is the contract.
So there are two contract.
First contract says that if object one is equals to equals to object two.
If object one and object two are same, then.
Their hash.
Should be also same.
If two objects are same, their hash should also be same.
Another contract between them is if two object hash is same.
Doesn't means that two objects are equal.
So these are the two contract.
Let's understand that.
What is the first contract says that if object one is equals to object two, both are equal, then their
hash should be same also no matter what.
So no matter, let's say if you are doing for five, you are getting a hash one, 234.
This is the hash function.
So it takes five and generate this hash function.
No matter how many times you run this hash function for the five, you always get the same hash only.
That's what it says, that if object one is equals to object two, then their hash should be also same.
So this property, this contract makes guarantee that no matter how many times you call hash, if you
call hash with the same value, you will always get the same hash output.
So that's why during put during put five comma, let's say any value whatever the hash functions come
for five.
Let's say 616100.
Now during get also when I'm doing for five it will again try to find out a hash.
It will generate the same hash.
And this will help us to go to a particular index.
This is the first property.
You know that.
Why this first property is helpful in get input method.
They will help us to generate the same same kind of hash and through which we can get a particular index.
Second property says that if two object hash is same, doesn't means that doesn't means that two objects
are equal.
That is correct.
Right.
So we have seen that.
So here if you see that this two right.
So this two might be you can say that hash comes equal right.
So let's say that hash of six and hash of eight it can comes equal.
SQL.
It comes like 51510.
It can come also 51510.
It is possible, right?
Maybe internally it hash function internally might be doing like this.
Uh uh like uh six into seven.
Some calculations.
Right.
Plus ten minus something.
So trying to generate a hash.
So it is possible that for other number also the same hash function or same hash value can come.
Okay.
So it has to be understand that if the hash value are same doesn't mean that the objects are same.
That's why we have like we have hash key value.
So even this hash of two objects are same 515100 doesn't mean they are same.
So never ever compare this hash.
Don't rely on this hash.
It can be same.
It cannot be same for two objects.
So always compare value also.
So generally if you see the logic it matches hash and key both.
So if both are same then it will.
So during get for five you will get a hash.
So what it will do is it will compare the hash also and the value also.
If both matches then it will return right.
So these are the two contracts between hash code and equal.
Right now you can ask that hey.
This when we are so where we are doing a linked list internally we are storing the data like this in
HashMap.
Right.
So here we also have a node and we are storing like this.
So how hash map is guaranteed.
Or you can say that average performance of HashMap is big O of one for insertion.
For deletion.
For finding how it able to offer big O of one time complexity.
How?
First thing.
So just understand this now very importantly.
So there is a concept called.
So you know right there is one disadvantage here is that let's say if there is you did.
Put of.
Ten elements.
So key is one some value key is to some value key is three.
Some value key is ten some value.
What if the hash function generates the same index for all.
And internally we are using.
Linked list.
So we'll be storing here one, two, three its value and the next four, five, six, seven.
So now you can say that, hey, if I have to find, let's say ten and ten is here inside a linked list,
then for the ten the hash will come.
It will give me an index zero.
Then I have to iterate.
Right.
Then how come it's big O of one?
I have to iterate.
Hey, is it ten?
No.
Is it ten?
No.
Is it ten?
No.
Go to the next.
So it is big O of N worst time complexity.
Yes.
So the average time complexity is big O of one.
And the worst time complexity of HashMap is big O of N.
So now you can see that hey, on how come average It makes a time complexity big O of one.
It's a very high chance that it will create a long list.
High.
It's a very high probability that if I'm inserting this linked list will become huge.
If there are so many collision.
So how it maintains this average.
So this load balancer load factor help us to do that.
So what does load factor is.
So here if you don't define anything what's the load factor of HashMap currently is 0.75.
Default load factor is 0.75.
Now what is that.
So now let's say initial.
What is the initial size.
Initial table for the HashMap is let's say 16, right 012.
Three.
And let's say this is 15 0 to 1516.
This is the initial hash map.
All empty.
Load factor is 0.75.
So what does it say?
Is that 16 into load factor 0.75, which is generally comes as 12 whenever the 12 data or whenever the
12 key value mapping is insert into this table, it will do rehash.
It will do rehash okay means it will increase the size.
It will increase the size or double the size.
Okay.
So earlier it was 16.
Then it will become 32, then it will become 64, then 128.
So in always multiple of two.
And so initial size was.
So this is initial size.
Initial size was of 16.
Load factor I have determined 0.75.
So as soon as you have 12 data.
So let's say this is your hash key value.
Next.
So you have let's say one value is something.
And then you have another data here some data here you have some data.
Then you have some data here.
Right.
Just understand this is any data okay.
So you will have some data here.
There are collision.
You will make a list like a linked list here.
As soon as it reads this 12 threshold 16 the size of the initial hash map into the load factor.
So 12.
As soon as you will insert the 13th element key value, what it will do is it will do rehash.
So what it will do is it will increase the size of a hash map and then compute the index for them.
Again, it will rehash them into the new because now it would be the new index, right?
So it will rehash them.
So maybe this data now come here.
Maybe this data earlier it was index three.
Now it will come some here right.
So that's load factor one.
Help.
It does it it don't let your linked list to grow much as soon as it says that.
Hey there are, uh, 12 there is a threshold increase.
Let.
Okay.
The size is.
See if the size is small only.
Let's say this 3012.
And if you insert 100 items inside this 012, definitely there would be collision, right?
Definitely there would be collision.
Right.
So because 100 items you have to put in into this three index.
Definitely there will be collision if you make this linked list and your linked list would be grow.
And if linked list grows you have to iterate.
So your searching and insertion time complexity increases.
So load factor.
What it does is as soon as it says that hey, as soon as the capacity threshold increases or crossed,
it will increase this size of a HashMap itself.
So when the size of a hash table increases, what will happen is definitely there would be less collision
as they have more space, right?
So definitely the searching and all the operation deletion and all would be faster also.
Okay, so you understand what is load factor, but is it a guaranteed that load factor help you to increase
the size?
No.
Then there is one more thing.
What if you have a sufficient space?
Zero, one two.
Let's say 127.
Right.
Because of load factor, you have a let's say sufficient space.
But again, whatever the put you are doing, it's all turning out to be a collision.
Let's say worst scenario possible.
Right.
It's possible it can all turn out to be a particular linked list only.
So how to avoid that now.
So here if you see that there is something called untry or tree phi threshold three five threshold.
What is this tree Phi threshold.
So initial is eight.
So what it does is this internally.
Whenever the collision happens, you create a linked list.
Okay.
So now currently in the linked list how many items are there.
So this is
123456.
Let's say seven.
Let's say you are doing another port.
Same because of hash.
Uh let's say hash comes at 9200.
You did mod 128 the size of a hash map.
So you got index zero.
Let's say again you put whatever the put you wanted to do.
You add it here.
So 12345678.
So now if you see that as soon as you are doing another put, you are trying to insert another value
and let's say index again comes zero and you want to insert it over here now.
But what is the three?
Five?
Threshold is eight.
As soon as you reach till that eight and you wanted to insert more than that, what it will do is it
will convert the linked list into.
Tree.
You can say that it's a balanced
binary search tree.
You know that binary search tree, right?
Uh, whatever the value, the left side is smaller than the parent node, and the right node is greater
than the parent node.
Like this.
Right.
So it used a balanced binary search tree might be red black red black tree internally.
So it will convert this linked list into binary search tree.
Balanced 1st Maybe red black tree because it's a balance.
You will always kind of a balanced one.
Right.
AVL is also balanced binary tree.
But I think internally it uses red black tree.
Right.
Uh so that because binary search tree also possible it can go like this itself.
So it uh red black tree avoid it and make it balanced like this.
So that searching would be in log of n.
So if there are too much collision happening and everything coming out to be a same index of an array,
then worst time complexity is big O of n in case of linked list, uh, but it has provided three five
threshold eight.
So after as soon as limit to the eight it will convert it to a binary search array.
And you know that in binary search you when you find it, whether you go here or here.
Right.
So after this you will go here or here.
So it will always be log of n, not o of n.
You can learn binary search tree or maybe in the data structures part.
I'm not covering binary search tree but binary search tree.
Search complexity is log of n.
You always do one part of the tree, either left or right.
You don't access full.
So that's why.
So here if you see that, put 12.
So whenever we are inserting an element into the HashMap is check the bin count.
So bin count is nothing but this only this is called either bucket or bin.
If it reaches the threshold, if it reaches the threshold, it will testify.
It will construct this linked list into tree.
You can instantly goes and check how it construct the tree.
Now, what is the worst case?
Time complexity?
You can say that here.
Average average time complexity is big O of one for insertion, searching, deletion.
Everything.
Worst case, if we are using internally linked list it would be big O of N, but generally we don't
use linked list.
After a particular size of linked list, we convert it to a tree.
So it's big O of log N.
So just wanted to tell before you even say this answer big o of log n.
Always tell that first you try to make a linked list, but for linked list there is a threshold.
If it reached that threshold, it will convert that tree to convert that linked list to tree.
So generally we never have big O big often, right?
As we convert that linked list to tree.
So big O of log N is the worst case complexity for HashMap.
Got it.
So you got this concept right.
When we are doing put what actually happens and when we are doing get what actually happens, how actually
it stores the data.
Okay.
Now let's go to the more method.
Like let's say we have remove remove.
What will happen is it will remove the element from the key.
I'll show you with an example of this one.
It will be a more uh like this one.
Just take this example.
So now in this example I am creating one map HashMap Okay, so now here inside that what I am doing
is I am putting null comma test, right?
I am putting null comma test.
So first of all few things I haven't defined anything.
So maybe default size of an array they have taken might be 16 0 to 15 right.
And it's an array of what.
It's an array of node kV array.
Okay.
So what is the kV here.
So k here is my integer.
So my this is my k integer.
And this is my value is string.
So what it put is null test okay.
So this is the key.
So for null it first find out a hash of null and it will do mod size of the table.
Let's say 16.
It will find out some index.
Let's say it will put it here.
Let's say two comes.
So it will put null test then zero null key let's say again.
Uh then I'm doing hash of zero.
Whatever comes I will do mod 16.
Let's say it comes here zero and value is null.
So now here just notice that in the hash map I can have even the key as null and the value as null.
Also.
Then one a let's say one is stored over here.
Here itself one A this is key.
This is value.
There is a hash also.
I'm not storing it just for simplification two let's say two is stored here.
Two value is b currently next is null.
Okay.
so now this is how you know already how it works.
Then there is a method called put if absent.
Okay.
So what this method does, it will say that if the value is null.
If the value is null for a given key.
So the key is this null.
Okay.
If the value if the key doesn't even exist, or the value of a key is null, then it will add this data.
So now my key is null.
So put if absent.
So does null exist?
Yes null exists.
Okay.
This key is present.
What it is value test.
So test value exists.
It is not.
It's value is not null.
So it will not write this data.
It will not write this data Right.
So now I am doing another put if absent zero comma.
This is the put if absent.
So zero.
So does zero exist.
Yes.
This is the key zero.
What its value null.
Its value is null right.
So it will override this with this value put if absent.
So when it considered as absent either this key is not there or if key is exist, even its value is
null.
It will then write this data.
So it will replace this null with zero.
So it will write.
This data will override its data with zero.
Three with c.
So now say three exists.
No doesn't exist.
So let's say it will insert.
It's a hash of three comes something mod six uh 16.
Let's say it's come here.
So it will put three C here Yeah.
Okay.
Then you will do a print out here.
So now how you will iterate the hash map.
See this method.
So there is something called entry set.
What this entry set method returns entry set method returns you this I told you right.
It's an array of this one entry k k comma v right.
It's a.
You can say that it's a kind of an array you are getting.
A map entry integer string kV.
You got this.
And now you are iterating one by one.
So for each an array internally you are having just a node only, right.
These are all nothing but an entry kV node kV right.
So you will get this array.
And now you are iterating one by one.
So for each node what value it has node has your key value hash.
Right.
So it has a appropriate method get key.
It will return the key get value.
It will return the value right.
And you can print that you understand right.
What does entry set returns.
Entry set returns this.
All this which is what is this node.
This node is node of k comma v class.
Right.
This is the object node.
We have an array of this and it has hash key value.
And next right.
So all this three has.
So it return the array of this.
And from each of this we can take out its key value.
So when you run this what it printed first whatever we have stored till now.
So we have stored till now here null which is test zero is replaced with zero here if you see that earlier
zero was null, but put if present we did right.
So for the null value it replace it with the zero.
So zero is now replaced with zero.
And then we have put 1A2B3C1A2B3C.
Then we check is empty method hashmap dot is empty.
Now we have the data so it will return false.
What is the size.
So it will just print the size 12345.
Does it contains.
This is the key.
Does it contains three?
Yes.
Key is three exists true.
The get method get one.
You know already.
Now how get works.
First it will compute the hash.
Then from the hash it will do mod table size.
It will goes to a particular index.
From that it will iterate over a linked list or a tree Three and do equals compare, right?
Its value is same or not.
After that it finds it right.
But get one.
Does one exist?
Yes.
One exists.
What it will return.
It will return value of it.
A value is a.
Okay.
Then after that get or default.
So this is also like if the value doesn't present it will give it like nine nine doesn't present key
0123 or null is present, nine is not there.
So it will return this default value.
Get or default return default value.
Remove particular key null.
So I'm removing this now null.
Remove this key.
So I am just iterating over that.
Now here if you see that it removes the key value.
So I'm removing it at this point of time when I removed it, right?
Remove it, remove this element and returns the whatever the element is removed.
So now when I iterated it, see that key null is missing.
Key set.
So there is one more method present into the HashMap is like HashMap dot key set.
Now what this key set will do, it will return you this this key.
It takes out all the keys and give you in a set and return it right.
So you can just like a list collection, you can iterate over the key itself.
I'm iterating over the keys zero, one, two, three.
Similarly, there is a method called values dot values.
So you can just iterate over the values and just print it right.
So my values was string right.
So collection of values which is of string.
And I'm iterating it.
So values are 0ABC.
Right.
So here value zero ABC.
So here if you see that these are all the methods which are present.
But very important you have to know is how HashMap works.
Right.
So now you also know the time complexity of HashMap.
Also this is just an average amortized.
Amortized means average.
Worst case you already know if we are using linked list internally, it will give big O of N but linked
list we generally have a particular size.
After that we move to the tree or tree.
Uh balanced binary search tree which gives big O of log n.
So worst case time complexity is big O of log n.
HashMap is clear right in the hash table is very very similar to HashMap.
So remember that HashMap is not thread safe.
It is not thread safe.
Hash table is thread safe.
That's all.
That's the only difference.
And one more thing is here are here HashMap do not maintain the order.
Yes, it do not maintain.
Hash table is a synchronized version of HashMap.
It's a synchronized version of HashMap.
So generally if you see that in the hash map, I can.
I told you that HashMap can have null key and null value.
Hash table do not contains null key or null value.
No.
Second thing is HashMap is not thread safe, hash table is thread safe and also you can use concurrent
HashMap that is also thread safe.
So HashMap has two variant.
You can say that.
So this is not thread safe and its two variants which are thread safe is concurrent.
HashMap and hash table.
Hash table is exactly same as HashMap.
Apart from that, there is no difference.
It is thread safe.
Second, you cannot store either null key or null value.
That's all.
Everything else is same.
Okay, so this two I have covered today.
I will cover in the link HashMap and Treemap in the next video.
But but do practice HashMap and understand this HashMap internals very well.
Like if you have any doubt with this, what load factor is how the data is stored in the map actually
write.
Just don't always see that okay, this is key value here we store key.
Here we store value.
No I told you right how actually internally stored.
It's an array of this right.
So practice this one.
Any doubt let me know.
Right okay.
So see you soon guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Collections in Java - Part5 | LinkedHashMap and TreeMap in depth ---

Hey, guys.
Welcome back.
Uh, so yesterday we have covered the hash map and hash table.
And today I'm going to cover the linked hash map and tree map.
Okay, so as you already know, the map now in totally in depth linked hash map is very, very similar
to hash map.
But the major difference is that linked hash map maintains an order.
So it maintains 2 or 2 types of order.
You can say that two types of order it maintain.
What is the first one?
The first one is insertion order.
It helps in maintain the insertion order.
What does insertion order means?
If you have inserted the items like one, two, three, four and when you try to access it, you will
get same.
The way you insert it, you will get first one, then two, then three, then four.
So linked hash map helps to maintain the insertion order.
Plus we can also use it to maintain the access order.
So access order means the one which frequently used frequently used that you will find it at the end.
For example you have used three just now.
So you will find 124, three.
So means like this.
Highly frequently used items would be present at last, less frequently used.
So this is the access order.
So access order is less frequently used to high frequently used elements would be you will be able to
get insertion order means like the way the elements are inserted.
When you get it, you will get the same way.
I'll tell you both how to do that with an example, but just wanted to tell you that how it differ from
HashMap.
HashMap doesn't maintain an order, but linked HashMap provides you two type of ordering Ring insertion
and access order how we will see it.
So what Linkedhashmap does differently than HashMap.
It uses the double linked list.
Now let's see that when.
So now you can ask me that.
Hey, you are saying that it is exactly same as HashMap, but you are saying it is using double linked
list.
How?
Now I will tell you how.
So I am taking this example.
Let's say in a map I wanted to insert like this element one and value is a 21 is the key value is B,
23 is the key value is C and like that.
So you know that now you already know HashMap.
Now let's say this is the HashMap it created.
Let's say the HashMap.
First initial size I have taken three.
So three buckets created with a entry kV array.
Okay, there might be some hash value present.
I have just ignored it.
So let's say key one and A is stored here.
Index zero 21 B is also it's hash also comes to the zero only.
So it added to it's next.
So it would be here 23 C is added here in the index one.
141 D is added here at index three.
And 25 E is added at let's say index one.
So index one already has 23.
So it's next would have this.
So this is the normal hash map.
We already know that.
Now you can say that hey how linked hash map differs from it.
So this is the linked hash map of it.
So don't worry about this.
There are lot of lines here.
So here I'll tell you what is the difference.
See what is the linked list.
If you see the double linked list.
So one the next element is 21, next element is 23, then next is 141 and the next is 25.
So in the doubly linked list what it would be.
So after.
So you will have like this.
And there would be one pointer here okay.
So generally we have two pointer right.
Uh after and before.
So I think it would be better if I draw like this.
It would make more sense.
So in the doubly linked list every node have two points like before after.
And the value value is one.
Then it has before after.
And the value value is 21.
Then before after value is 23.
Before after value is 141 and then 25, one, 41 and then 25.
So what would happen is for this element one it's after it will point to this and it's before will point
to this.
Right.
And this would be null.
It's this is after.
So this after will point to this.
It's before will point to this.
It's after will point to this.
It's before will point to this.
It's after will point to this.
And it's before will point to this.
And it's after would be null.
So this is generally the doubly linked list right.
The same thing happened here also.
Now now if you see the difference the node, this node of this is the node of HashMap.
And but in the node of linked HashMap, there is two more elements.
Apart from this, what are the two more elements?
The two more elements is here if you see that before and after.
Okay, so in HashMap.
So in HashMap, generally you have only this hash key value.
Next right there is nothing like before and after.
So this one is for linked HashMap okay.
So in HashMap you have only hash key value and next.
But in the linked HashMap you have also these two values.
This two values.
Let me show you this is the linked HashMap.
Let's go inside this.
This is the linked HashMap class.
Java class.
Uh, there will be a node or it might be implementing implements entry.
Is it implementing that one?
Let's check its node where it has defined that.
So see.
Yeah this one.
So it extends the hash map.
So linked hash map extends the hash map plus map also.
So that's how it's creating the node.
So here it extends the hash map dot node kV.
So what are the values present into hash map node.
So in the hash map node what all values present hash here hash then key then value hash key value and
the next and the next.
So linked hash map contains two more fields before and after.
It adds another two fields before and after.
So again the same thing.
Now nothing different than HashMap.
So now this is the array.
So now when you did put what it will do.
First step it will find the hash hash of the key.
What is the key here one right.
It will find some hash.
Let's say 12345 mod size of the array.
So let's say the default HashMap is.
We created for three size.
Exactly same because linked hash map is a child of HashMap only.
So mod three.
For example, the index which come is zero.
Okay, this index come is zero, let's say.
So we have added hash here key.
We have added here value.
We have added here okay.
So what is after this one.
What should be the one before null.
So here in the before we have put null.
So currently this is your head.
This is your head.
And before I have put null and after after.
So currently when only one element present, this is null and this is also null.
So initially after would be also null only.
Now I am putting second element.
So how does the HashMap works?
First it will generate the hash of 21.
Let's say come 56789 mod three.
Let's say again comes the index zero.
Only when it comes to index zero it says that hey, already one node is present here.
What it will do is in its next exactly same as HashMap.
In its next it put a 21 so its hash five six, seven.
Whatever it would come five six, seven eight, 921 key and value it put here now.
So it's like now you are putting the second element 21.
So what should be the after of this head?
So it would be this.
So that's what I am doing here.
So here if you see it's after now pointing to this.
Right.
And what should be the before of this one.
So it's before is pointing to this.
And this would be currently null.
So currently this would be null.
Now the same the third element 23 will come.
So how 23 would be inserted let's say hash.
You created a hash.
You did a mod.
Let's say it comes index one.
So at index one we inserted 23.
Okay.
So we inserted 23.
So now in a linked hash linked list what.
After you inserted 23 what should be done.
So after the 21 you should be pointing to this.
And before pointing to this.
So here, here, if you see after of 21 we are pointing to this.
So after it is.
Pointing to 23 only and it's before is pointing to it's before is pointing to 21.
So it's before is pointing to.
21.
Right.
So what we are doing is we are just maintaining the linked list also the way they have inserted.
So after the 23 what we have inserted 4141 so let's say 141 we keep the hash and index.
Come is let's say uh two index comes 012.
This should be two okay.
So let's say index comes to and we have added 141 D here.
Okay.
The same as HashMap.
So 141 when you did here.
So it's before should point to.
23 and it's after should points to 141.
So 23.
Now it's after points to 141 and 141 before points to 23.
It's before point to 23 okay.
And similarly now one more item.
Let's say 25.
Let's say 25 comes.
So let's say it's index come is one.
So at index one already 23 is there.
So what it will do is it's a collision happened.
So in the next it will put 25 right.
This is the 25.
So next it will put 25.
But after as a maintenance linked list.
So it's 141 after would point to 25 and 25 before will point to this.
So 141 after is pointing to this and it's before is pointing to 141.
Right.
And it's after is pointing to null.
It is null.
So you got it.
There's so many lines is nothing.
But we are maintaining a linked list also doubly linked list also.
Right.
So that's what it does.
That's why it's linked HashMap.
And now you see the difference here.
So take this example I am doing simple creating a map but creating an object of linked HashMap.
So linked HashMap I am inserting this 12345 items 21.
Same example one 2123 one 4125.
Okay, now I am iterating.
So what?
I got the similar way one.
Then after that 21, then after that, 23, then after that one.
41.
After that, 25.
But if I created a normal hash map, the same element.
See, ordering is not guaranteed.
So here if you see one 2123, but 25 before 25 before 25.
So order we don't guarantee here, but in the linked HashMap order is guaranteed.
So here let's see.
I'll give you for each one.
Just let's go inside this for each.
So this is I'm creating a new linked hash map.
If you just do for each just see that.
So this is the we parent.
We have to go linked hash map.
So here see how we are iterating.
So we are iterating over the entries or the node.
Each node is starting from head right till it is not equal to null.
And we are moving after.
So it is going iterating through linked HashMap.
It iterates through this after.
So this is my head first.
After it printed it goes to after.
Then it will print this.
Then it goes to after.
So after is 23.
After this one is 141.
After this one is 25.
Okay, so that's why whenever you print the linked HashMap, you will always get the insertion order.
Okay, cool.
Now you got right how linked HashMap maintains the insertion order.
It maintains through double linked list.
Doubly linked list.
Right.
So exactly same as HashMap, but it also creates a two more extra nodes before and after which it also
maintains the two for the doubly linked list.
Okay, so now you can ask like, okay, we got to understand that how it maintain an insertion order,
but how it maintain the access order in access order.
I told you that the elements which are very, very frequently used, that would be at last, and the
elements which are less frequently used, that would be at the front.
So here notice this part.
When I created an object I passed nothing.
So okay.
When I pass nothing it gives me an insertion order but for access order.
When I created a linked hash map, I passed access order.
True.
So in the linked hash map constructor here, if you see that in the linked hash map constructor there
is two flavors.
There are multiple flavors if you don't give anything.
Access order is by default false.
When access order is false means you want insertion order.
Construct an empty insertion order linked list.
But if you want access, order means you want the more frequently used item to recent or highly frequently
used element here, like this.
Then you have to pass this as true.
You have to set access order true.
So this constructor we can use we can give initial capacity 834.
Whatever you want it to give.
Load factor.
You already know you can give 0.75.
But access order I give true access order I give true when I give the access order.
Now let's see how the same thing.
One 2123 141 41 and 25.
Now how it differs.
Now here, if you see that generally it should print this way.
But now I access one element map dot get 23 I access this element.
So what it will do is it will, since what we are saying is less frequently used to recent frequently
use.
This is the order.
So 23 it will remove from here and put at the back.
So it should print now 121 and now I'm printing.
So 121 141 2523 121 after that, one 4125 and 23.
So here the highly frequently used would be present here.
So just see this.
So I am doing dot get.
So when you do dot get.
So this is the map.
We have two goats child or concrete implementation linked hash map.
Uh where is linked hash map.
Linked hash map.
So now whenever we are trying to do get anything, it will get like what?
How hash map is used to get big O of one only whatever the logic hash map used to do a get same, but
what additional it has is it check if access order.
Yes, we have given access order true what it will do it.
See it.
Move the node to the last it.
Move the node to the last so it will remove it here.
This code will remove it from here.
Put it at the back and keep maintain the update.
The doubly linked list.
Right.
So that's how it maintain the access order.
So now you can say that hey, this can't we use this property of a linked hash map in caching.
In caching also.
Right.
Uh, let's say when you do purge, we have to purge only the less frequently used item high frequently
used item we can keep.
Yes, this can also be used in the caching also.
So in the caching you can maintain a linked hash map and whenever you have to purge, purge from start
because these are the less frequently used and from last, these are the highly frequently used item.
Okay.
Got it.
How linked HashMap works.
It's exactly same as HashMap.
Only thing is it maintains the doubly linked list also with these two pointers in the node.
So the time complexity is same as HashMap.
Averages big O of one only no difference is that what would be the worst?
Worst is either big O of N right or big O of log n log n in case it has to convert a tree base structure,
right?
But average is big O of one, exactly same as HashMap.
Nothing differs internally, just doing some extra work to maintain a linked list.
Again, it is not a thread safe and there is no thread safe version available, so we have to manually
explicitly make it thread safe.
How?
Like this.
Collections dot synchronize map so we can do this way.
So there is you.
You already know about collections, right?
I have covered it.
So this is a util class.
In this util class there is a method called synchronize map.
So now here if I do here collections dot synchronize map and the linked HashMap is not thread safe.
So now what it will do.
So here if you see synchronize map.
Okay, so now what it will do is whatever the operation you will perform.
Let's say you are trying to perform map two dot put.
So this put would be called off.
Which one.
This class object synchronize map.
So put it will goes inside synchronize map.
Okay.
In the collections.
So what it does it just nothing.
It just put synchronize block and ultimately calling put method of this object.
What object.
We are passing linked HashMap.
So internally it calling the put method of this only.
But it just added a synchronized block.
So you don't have to manually put synchronize block everywhere.
You have to use put internally.
You can use this These collections synchronize map method, and after that you can use the linked hash
map with different threads.
It would be safe.
Okay so linked hash map is cleared right I hope.
Now let's understand the tree map.
So here if you see that this tree map is structured.
So again very easy.
So we have a map.
Map extends sorted map sorted map extends.
So here if you see that this map sorted map extends map then navigable map extends sorted map.
And then this tree map.
This implements.
This is a concrete class which implements this interface.
This is also an interface.
This is also an Interface.
Okay, so what it does, how Treemap is different from HashMap and linked HashMap.
So map is sorted as.
The name says that.
It is sorted according to the natural ordering of the key or by comparator, which we will provide for
the map creation.
So one thing is clear that it is sorted.
So what order it will give either ascending.
Or descending.
Only these two order.
It will give not insertion not access.
So it will sort either in the natural order or the whatever the comparator you will provide.
I have already explained the comparator how it will help us to sort in decreasing order.
Ascending order.
Right.
So what tree?
As we say tree.
What tree use to sort it?
It use red black tree.
So you know that red black tree is a self-balancing binary search tree, and it uses this to store the
values through which it maintain a sorted ordering.
What is the time complexity is big O of log n.
So here, if you see that this is slower than your hash map linked hash map hash table, they their
averages big O of one.
It's averages big O of log n because it is internally creating a tree self binary search tree and binary
search tree.
It's take log of n.
So how what it does.
So here if you see that what it does is just see this one.
So the same now I am creating map creating a map object of tree map okay.
So I told you that I can use comparator in the Constructor and I am using a comparator here.
Key two minus key one.
So it's ordering based on the keys.
Right.
So what I wanted to do a sorting on descending order decreasing order.
Right.
So this is my values which I want to put into the map.
But comparator which I will give as a decreasing order.
So how what it values it will put in the decreasing.
So first it will put 21 then 13, then 11 and then five, 13, 21, 13, 11, five.
So in decreasing order, and if you wanted to maintain an A, so you created a tree map, but you haven't
defined anything.
It will sort in the natural order.
So for integer what is the natural order is ascending.
So 511 1321, 511, 13, 21.
Okay so this is how it insert.
It has the node.
So this is its node structure.
This is its node structure tree map.
So it has key it has value.
It has parent left right.
So now let's say if you want to insert this three elements how it will insert.
So first you are trying to insert this four comma SJ.
So it will cause key value.
What is parent.
So this is the first.
So its parent is null.
Its currently left would be null.
Right would be null.
Let's say now the second item you want to insert is one comma PJ.
So one is lesser than four.
It's a binary search tree.
So it's lesser than four.
So it will go into its left.
So I have created one node.
So this is my key.
This is my value.
You.
And now this.
It's left.
We'll point to here.
And this parent will point to that.
Who is the parent of this node?
It's four.
Now I want to store five.
So five is greater than four right.
So it will go to its right.
So see now we are maintaining the binary search tree.
So this is my key.
This is my value.
Its left right is null and its parent is this.
And its right now is this right.
So now if you add more item it will keep on adding like this.
So it's just maintaining the binary search tree.
But the balance one red black tree.
So you got it.
That's why its time complexity is little higher.
Big O of log n.
So what are the methods available in sorted map.
So here if you see that you already know what all methods of map.
Now let's see what all methods available in sorted map because this is an interface.
What new methods it added.
Then we'll see this navigable interface.
What new method it has added.
So here this four items, these four methods are added into the sorted map interface.
So here if you see that this is the map okay.
So head map.
So whatever whatever the hash map I created sorted map map to.
So I created a tree map right.
But the tree map I am creating an object of sorted map one.
So I am doing map two dot head map two key 13.
So what?
It will return me.
So you know that internally I haven't given anything.
It will sort in a increasing order.
So 511 1321 right.
So I have wanted head map.
So from head to 13.
So it will return this five and 11.
So it is exclusive.
Then I want so five and 11.
Then I want tail map from 13.
So this is excluded.
So from this to tail.
So only 21 it will give.
Okay.
Sorry from is this is inclusive.
This will return 13 and 21.
So in the remember this in the two part it is exclusive and in the from part it is inclusive.
So this is inclusive part sorry.
Till tail.
So 13 and 21 will be the output.
Then I will do map to first key.
So what would be the first key here in the sorted.
This is five map two dot last key.
What is the last key 21.
21.
So these four keys are for methods which are available, which it might if we need it, we can use it
anyway.
But in last eight years I haven't used it.
So.
But might be these methods are available similarly here.
If you see that Treemap also is a child of navigable map.
So what?
All methods added here 14 or 17 methods are available in the navigable map interface.
So but very very self-explanatory.
So I have used in this example.
So in the tree map.
So this would not be a linked HashMap.
This is your tree map.
This would be your tree map.
And this would be sorted in the ascending order.
So it would be like one uh then 21, then 23, then 25, then 141.
So then one method is say the lower entry and provide the key.
So I have provided 23 lower map dot lower entry 23.
So what I get what this says that it will return the entry node means it has key value both and what
it will return less than 23.
If there is any value otherwise return null.
So 23 what value is less than is 21, so it will return 21 be so key value 21 be.
Similarly there is lower key.
It was lower entry.
So it entry node you know right.
It has both key value.
Key is now only key.
So it will only return lesser than this value whatever the key have given.
So it will return only key 21 not the value okay.
So lower entry and lower key means value should be less than whatever the key you are providing.
And there is something called floor.
So floor means lower, less or Eat less or equal.
So first it will say that hey, do you have an equal?
Then return that.
If no, return the lesser one.
So when I do dot map dot flow entry 24.
So it will check.
Hey 24 is present.
No 24 is not present.
So what.
It will return lesser than this 23.
So it is an entry.
So it will return 23 comma its value.
See.
So there is something called flow key.
Key means it will return only the key part not the value part.
So it will return only 23.
But there is like if I give 23 itself map dot flow entry 23.
So it's flow means equal or less.
So yes 23 is already present, so it will return 23 also.
So lower means strictly lesser than this flow means same and less.
If it is same is present.
Return that.
If the same key is not present, uh.
Return the lesser one.
Similar ceiling.
So 121 121 2325 141 so ceiling ceiling is equal or greater.
Right floor ceiling equal or greater.
So ceiling entry 23.
Hey, 23 is present.
Yes.
So return that ceiling.
Entry 24.
Hey 24 is there.
No.
Then it's greater 25.
Similarly key it will return only key part 2523 like not the value part.
Right ceiling entry ceiling key higher is strictly greater than.
That's very very self-explanatory.
You can see.
So it higher is like strictly 23.
What is the next greater than.
This is 25.
If you give 25 what is the next greater than is 141 first entry like you can give map dot first entry
if you give like.
So this this is not required.
Uh, this one forced entry you will give.
It will give the forced increasing order.
One last entry you will give.
So this is the last entry.
What it will give the last one pole forced entry.
So pole is something which is taken out.
So it will return the last item from the map.
And.
But it will also be removed from the map.
Now one would be removed from the HashMap.
Pole last entry.
It will return the last element last element from the map and that would be removed from the map also.
Descending map.
It will reverse the map and return.
So if you have map like this 1359.
Increasing order.
So decreasing map will give you 1531 opposite key set.
Key set will return you the only key part of it.
Like this.
This part like, but in a increasing order.
121 2325 141 because Treemap stores the data in increasing order.
There is something called decreasing key set.
So it will give you a data into decreasing order.
Similarly, there is a head map, right?
As if you remember the head head map is also there in the sorted.
So here it is a little bit more clear that provide a key.
And do you want to enclose it.
It should inclusive or not.
So let's say I give 23 to include it.
So it will return.
One 2123 let's say from tail map from inclusive.
So 23 yes, inclusive.
True.
So 23 2541 so that is more clear actually whether we have to enclose it or not include it.
So these are very simple methods which are available in navigable map and sorted map.
So go through it.
So these are our map which is finished.
Now what.
All left is your set.
Right.
The set map.
And the stream.
This two is left after that collection would be finished.
Set would be very very easy because set uses exactly the same data structure.
Has set uses HashMap internally.
Right.
So it's almost same.
So set you won't find any problem at all if you understand the map properly.
And then we will learn stream in depth.
Very very important.
Okay guys, if you have any doubt let me know in the comment section and I hope you are enjoying this
series by.

--- Collections in Java - Part6 | SET ---

Hey guys.
Welcome back to the side.
And now till now we have completed almost all the things in the collections.
And only thing which is left is set.
So if you haven't seen the previous video of HashMap I would say that please go ahead and watch that
first because hash set linked has set tree map tree set.
Internally they use HashMap, linked HashMap and tree map only right.
So they are very much equivalent itself.
Okay.
So let's finish today's set and then we will the only topic which will be left in the collections would
be streams.
Okay.
So set is very very simple if you understand the map.
So collection of an object but it does not contain duplicate value.
And why it doesn't contain a duplicate value.
You might have already know the answer.
Can you put into the comment section why said doesn't contain a duplicate value, right?
It uses internally what hash map and why hash map cannot have duplicate value.
Please comment down in the comment section.
Right?
It can have only one null value you can insert.
Unlike list, set is not ordered.
Collections means object inside set does not follow the insertion order.
So this is also a one condition that in linked hash set you can have insertion order again.
Second question why linked hash set?
Maintain an insertion order.
You know that now already internally what it might be using linked hash map right.
Right.
So and you already know that how linked HashMap maintains an insertion order.
So generally when we say that SAT set doesn't follow the insertion order, but it's one of the flavor
linked hash set maintains the insertion order set cannot be accessed via index.
So you know that list we can access via index 012 set we cannot access via index.
So generally few questions which comes to your mind right.
Hey what data structure is used in stack internally as it doesn't allow duplicate value?
If you have seen the previous video, you have already know the answer what structure it used internally,
right HashMap and it order is not guarantee.
Then what?
What if you wanted to sort the set collection?
How to sort it you know right tree set and why it is internally using tree map.
Okay, so if you haven't seen again one more time, if you haven't seen the previous video, you might
be thinking that I am rushing.
But if you have seen the previous video, this all makes sense to you that this is very, very similar
to the one which we have already done.
Okay, so here I will tell you what happened is so we will see this method first.
But let me first tell you the first implementation of hash set.
Right.
Just see this hash set first.
This will connect all the dots.
If you have like when I'm saying it is all very very similar.
So Hashset is internally using HashMap right.
The way we use to create a hash map.
So you know right in hash map what two things we have key and value right.
So now Anna has set when you are inserting an element you are trying to add right.
You are doing map dot put internally.
Eternally.
Now you are saying that hey, this is hash set means it is kind of an only value.
It cannot have key value.
Then how it is using key value.
What is the key?
What is the value here?
But here in the hash set we have only one thing.
Let's see like this set of integer, it will have only like one, five, nine 1113, 41.
It is only one values, right?
How it is using this hash map where we have only key value.
So this is how internally it does.
So when you do set dot add 12, what internally it is doing is it is doing map dot put only internally
using hash map only.
And in the key it is putting this 12 and in the value it is putting one dummy object.
New object.
It just put a dummy object, nothing else.
So ultimately this key set is what actually is this?
So let me show you also that let's open which class has set class.
Okay.
In the hash set class let's see the add method.
Add method.
So here if you see that internally it using what HashMap only and it when it is doing put it put the
element like element which you are inserting.
So I'm inserting element let's say one here.
What is the element I am trying to insert is 12.
So 12.
And here what is this present.
Present is nothing but a dummy object dummy value to associate with an object.
So it is using HashMap only and in the key part it is putting all this value 12 1133 four and in the
value part it is nothing but a dummy object.
New object.
No meaning.
Only take this key.
Only.
Okay, so that's why I'm saying it is exactly the same.
The value is just a dummy object.
And whatever the value you wanted to insert, it is put inside a key.
Okay.
So what all methods set interface contains.
So this has around this 13 method.
So you already know that set is a child of collection.
So all the methods which are present into the collection are also present into the set.
But here if you see that there are few new new methods let's understand that one.
So add I have already shown you that what it does.
So it contains no duplicate value.
It inserts the element in the set only if element is not already present.
If it is present, it will override it generally.
And if the same value is already present, then it returns false at right.
So this is you already know the answer.
Like how how it does actually.
So now just concentrate on this three methods add all.
So now you know that in the mathematics you have set right right set subset and all.
So it is like this three method will uh you can say that very very similar to those mathematical term
set.
So let's say you have two set collection.
Set one has 12 1133 four.
Set two has 11 988 ten 512.
Now you are doing add all set one.
Then add all will be like equivalent to plus of both all unique element.
Union of two set collection.
All unique, all duplicate.
So here if you see that 12 1133 412 1133 411 is already now present into the hash set, nothing will
happen.
Nine, eight, eight, ten, five, 12, 12 is already there.
So it is just like a union, right?
All the duplicate value it will not even insert, right?
No exception will come, but it will.
It won't insert any duplicate value internally.
It is doing single single add only right?
If anything it found duplicate it.
Just simply don't add it because it's a key right?
When key already present, then there is nothing to overwrite value.
There is nothing to overwrite it.
Just say that a key already present return false so nothing will happen in that.
Remove all, so remove all.
So you have set one.
Set two.
Now I am doing set one dot.
Remove all set two.
So from this set all the elements of the set two will get removed.
So from 12 1133 for any element which is also present into the set, two will get removed.
So set two has 11.
So 11 will get removed 988, ten, five, 12, 12 is removed, so only 33 and four will left right.
So remove all difference is equivalent to difference.
Then there is something called retain all.
Retain all is like this part common to both right.
So 1211 is common in both.
So that will come like an intersection intersection okay.
So it might looks very similar to our how we have read in the mathematics.
Right.
Rest.
All methods are very, very same, which we have already seen in the collections.
What clears will do.
What is empty will do.
Nothing difference.
Okay, so now the hash set which we have already seen what internally it is using, it is internally
using HashMap and in the HashMap.
You already know that when I am creating a new hash set right?
And when I'm adding an element, it will not guarantee the order because HashMap also do not guarantee
the order right and I.
So I have already explained how HashMap internally works, why it doesn't guarantee the order.
Uh, you can check that, right?
So here I have explained the union intersection and the difference.
The same example there is whatever the examples which I have taken here.
Just implement it here so you can try implementing this with yourself.
It is very very straightforward.
So the same examples I have taken in two sets.
I am doing union set one dot add all after union.
We got this, then again created us two set and I am doing retain all.
Retain all is like only intersection part 11 and 12.
Right 11 and 12.
And then we are doing a difference.
So created a two set and then doing remove all from the set one.
So got a difference.
You can try this out.
So in short has set is Threadsafe know why it is not thread safe because HashMap is also not thread
safe right?
So does it maintain insertion order?
No.
Why?
Because HashMap also doesn't maintain the insertion order.
Null element is allowed.
Yes.
Only one duplicate elements are allowed.
No.
What is the threadsafe version of it?
Right.
So there is one Threadsafe version you can use is there is something called concurrent HashMap class
in that this method is present new key set.
So here I can do concurrent HashMap equals to new concurrent HashMap.
And in that there is something called new key set method.
So this will return me a new set which is a thread safe.
Okay so now whatever you can do it's a thread safe operation.
Now today I will also tell you one thing that when you are iterating over this list set collection,
right.
So I am I created an iterator object and I'm checking has next.
Now I'm iterating.
So now here if you see that I am trying to add an element while iterating.
So now let's say the set is one, two, three, four, five.
This is the set.
Now you are iterating over this while iterating.
You are here at this point currently iterating and you are inserting an element here.
Eight.
If it is not a thread safe collection, then it will throw concurrent modification exception because
you cannot modify the collection while somebody is using it while you are using it, right?
So it says that concurrent modification.
Hey, one thread is already reading it and somebody is trying to update it also.
So this collection, this collection is being used for reading.
But now also while it is reading we are also trying to insert so two operation we are trying to perform.
So it throws concurrent modification exception.
Okay so see here I've used this headset.
Headset is not thread safe.
So if you try to add while doing iterating it will throw concurrent modification.
But if it's a thread safe, thread safe means in a single collection multiple threads can work together,
then you won't find any issue because internally it will synchronize.
Internally it will synchronize.
Only one operation can happen at a time.
No two operation can be performed.
Reading and addition can't be done concurrently.
Right.
So that is you can say that one of the key reason for you also to use thread safe version, right?
If you have a scenario where you want to add while somebody is also reading it.
Okay, but this is just a one to show you an example.
This is scenario also might happen when you are working, but here Threadsafe version is in the concurrent
HashMap.
There is a new key set method which will give you a Threadsafe set.
Okay.
Time complexity is very similar to HashMap.
What HashMap used to give because internally using HashMap only.
So whatever the time complexity of HashMap is, it would be the same similarly linked hash set.
So now you already know that linked hash set internally using linked HashMap, right?
I have already explained how linked HashMap works, so linked HashMap maintains the insertion order.
How?
Because it maintains internally.
What can you put into the comment?
Doubly linked list.
Right?
Again, it is not a thread safe because linked hash map is also not a thread safe.
And you can make it a thread safe like this.
Collections dot synchronize map.
And inside that you can put this linked hash map.
I have already explained in the previous like how you can do for linked HashMap.
Similarly you can do for linked hash set.
Right now you can ask me here in the linked hash map.
Uh, you told that we can maintain insertion order plus excess order.
And in the linked hash set.
And you are saying that only insertion order is maintained?
Why not excess order.
So here if you see that in the linked hash map, whenever you create an object, uh, let's see that.
Let me add a linked hash map.
So.
I'm creating a new linked hash set.
Let's go inside this so you know that there is one object called, uh, what was that?
Access.
Uh, access order.
Right.
So for that access order, we have to set it.
True.
But when you are creating a linked hash map, the Boolean value, it never passes it, right.
So even if you pass it true.
Hey, you want it to maintain an access order, right?
It is never passed it.
It's just say that dummy.
Right.
So always only one if.
Because access order would be false.
So only insertion order would be maintained.
No, you can't even control the access order because that exposure is not even given into the linked
hash set.
So even though we are passing through hay, we wanted the access order.
But that is just a dummy.
It's not even passed.
It is a dummy ignored.
This is ignored.
Okay.
So that's why we in the left hand side only insertion order is maintain access order.
Do not even maintain.
Okay.
So here I have created a linked hash set values I have put.
Now I am iterating.
So you will get.
I will get the way I have inserted 277 8263 five.
How?
Because internally it maintain a doubly linked list.
Right.
So very very clear.
Right.
So it's just you can say that name what we are doing it.
But now we are only interested in keys value.
It is just a dummy object.
New object.
Nothing dummy object.
So now we are only interested in keys time complexity.
Can you tell me what is the time complexity of linked hashtag would be?
What is the time complexity of linked hash map?
The same time complexity of would be linked hash set.
Also write Big-O of one only amortized means average tree set internally using tree map.
Right?
And what is the time complexity of tree map big O of log N?
Why?
Because it uses the red black tree.
Or you can say that the balanced binary search tree, right?
So it cannot store null values and the same.
The tree set also has the time complexity of big O of log N, because internally it uses tree map.
We can also double check that.
So let's say this tree set internally it's creating an object of blue tree map itself.
Tree map okay.
So you know that tree map?
You can have either ascending order or descending order.
Right.
So here, if I haven't given any comparator while creating a new tree set.
Right.
Internally using tree map only, I haven't given any comparator.
Then natural ordering would be used and for integer natural ordering would be ascending.
So when I added this two, five, 63, 77, 82 increasing order, it stored it.
But if I give the comparator here like new tree set, like I can give a comparator also like integer
a, comma integer b b minus a.
If I can do this, it will store into the descending order.
Like exactly a tree map.
And you are iterating it and printing it, and it print the value.
What would be the time complexity?
The time complexity would be big O of log N because it uses internally this.
So that's why I have covered this set after we have covered the map so that it makes more sense.
Otherwise, if I have covered the set before, there would be lot of questions how it's internally working.
But since we have already covered the hash map, linked hash map and tree map, you might be thinking
it is very simple and it might be make more sense that it only concentrate on the keys.
Value is just a dummy and complexity wise everything is time.
Complexity is everything is same like a map hash map.
Okay guys.
So now only one topic in collections left which is stream and I will make it soon.
Okay guys, any doubt, feel free to ping me.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Streams in Java8 | Collections in Java - Part7 ---

Finally the last video of the collections that is stream, right?
So this is very, very important topic.
I will cover the whole stream into one video.
And it is important from the interview perspective as well as it is very, very important from the day
to day usage perspective also.
So let's jump into that.
What is stream?
We can consider the stream as a pipeline through which our data element passes through.
So consider this as a pipeline.
Right.
So let's say this is our pipeline right.
And we have data coming to this pipeline.
And it will pass through this.
While element passes through this pipeline it can perform various operations like sorting, filtering
etc..
So what we will have is we can put operations here, let's say sorting operation, filtering operation.
So what we can have is in this pipeline we can add multiple operations.
Right.
So as data passes through this pipeline, it will pass through all the filters and ultimately we will
get the result or output right.
So this is very you can say that just to imagine as what is a stream.
So useful when deal with bulk processing.
Right.
Because it has the capability to parallel processing.
So I would say that the real power of streams comes for the bulk processing.
If you have a collection with data, let's say 1015, either you do it processes through uh, if else
for loop or using stream, you won't see much impact.
But the real benefit of streams comes when we deal with bulk data.
So here if you see this, if you see this diagram stream has three parts or three steps.
So here we have a collection.
So just say that collection of data or data.
So in this collection uh It could be your list.
It could be your array.
Right?
So just imagine a collection of data.
Okay.
So what is the step one.
So in the step one out of this collection of data we have to first create a stream.
So this is the step one.
We have to first create the stream.
Because you have you might have data in an array.
You might have data in a list.
So first is we need to open a stream or create a stream.
Second is intermediate operation at the operations at this operations.
Right.
So these are known as intermediate operation.
Why.
What does it intermediate operation means intermediate operation like filter sorts maps are used.
So what makes intermediate operations are the name intermediate, right?
So these operations transform the stream from one into another stream.
Okay.
So what does it mean is that this is stream.
You have opened the stream.
Okay.
You have opened the stream.
Now.
Data is coming.
So what it will do is when it pass through the intermediate operation, the output is again a stream
only.
So that's what it says, that these operations transform the stream into another stream.
So maybe at this point of time this data is in like for example, unsorted.
Then what is the first step?
First step I create the stream.
So stream is created right?
Stream is created.
This is unsorted data.
So first step open the stream or create the stream.
So I have created the stream.
Okay.
The second step put the intermediate operation.
We can have an intermediate operation like sorted.
This is sorted is one intermediate operation.
So this sorted intermediate operation accept the stream and its output is also a stream.
But it transforms.
So here it accepts an unsorted data output is sorted stream of data okay.
So that's why it's a name intermediate.
It's just not a final phase.
It's just an intermediate.
And we can have many intermediate phases or operation I can have here like say filter.
Filter is one more intermediate.
So maybe I can filter some data, let's say out of this unsorted integer filter the data which is greater
than three.
Right.
So it accept this stream of data.
It output would be also a stream of data, but it transforms it.
So this has sorted but values also lesser than three.
But after this filter operation it will have all this stream of data which is only greater than three
only.
So you got it.
What does intermediate operation means?
They are lazy in nature.
I will tell you what does lazy means, but just for now, see that these are lazy in nature means these
operations get executed only when terminal operation is invoked.
I will tell you with this with an example, but keep this in your back that yes, they are lazy in nature
means they get executed only when terminal operation is invoked, right?
We'll see in, uh, sometime.
Okay, so step one is clear that it is.
Help us to create a stream.
Second step is we can add one or more intermediate operations.
The third step is terminal operation.
Terminal operation.
You can use only one.
So let's say you can use terminal operation.
Terminal operation means as soon as the terminal operation is invoked.
Right.
Means you will get the result.
After it is invoked.
You will get the result.
You cannot add any more operations after this because terminal operation.
You will get the result and it will close the stream.
Also, it will close the stream, right?
So assume this that this is your data.
First step you open the stream.
You added certain operations, intermediate operations many.
But you added also one terminal operation at last.
So after this terminal operation, we cannot add any more operation, whether intermediate or terminal,
whatever, because after this terminal operation, it will output whatever the result would be and it
will close this stream.
Close the stream.
Right.
And now, if you see that this original data is not changed, it is not changed at all.
It's never get touched on touch in the sense this do not get modified.
So it always each and operation whenever they get stream is opened, they will get the data.
They will output as a new stream, new stream, right.
And whatever the result you will get, it will just you can get that as a new maybe list maybe array.
But it's a totally new data, new collection.
The original collection is not changed at all.
Okay, so step three terminal operations are like collect, reduce, count, etc. we will see that these
operation triggers the processing of the string right.
So that's what we call the intermediate operation as lazy because they only get invoked when terminal
operation is triggered.
We will see that with an example.
It also produced the output means after terminal operation use no more operation we can perform.
Okay so for this stream three steps are there.
Let's see with an example.
So I am creating first an example without using a stream.
So let's say I have created a data first list of an integer which is nothing but a salary.
So 3000 4000 109,000 1000 3500.
Some salary right?
Integer.
Now what I am doing is what I wanted to do.
I have to iterate over this salary and I need to find out a count how many salaries which are greater
than 3000.
I need a count of that.
So it's a very simple for loop I have iterating it.
If salary greater than 3000 count plus plus.
So it should be one, two and three.
So output should be your three.
But now if I want to write this using a stream how I will write it.
So the same.
So you have a data whatever the same data we have now instead of this I am replacing it with a stream.
So see how I'm writing a stream first?
What is the step one?
From this data you have to create a or open a stream.
So here from the list dot stream.
So this collection has exposed a method stream.
So this will create an stream.
Right.
So first step is it will create a stream.
So we can see also here that like.
Uh so whatever the list would be right inside a list let's say.
We have uh so it might be into this upper class collection.
So do we have stream?
Let's.
Yeah.
So this method get invoked and see what it will do is it will return the stream of whatever the data
we have.
Integer.
So first step is open a stream or create a stream.
So from this data source I have now created the stream.
Now second is you can put one or more intermediate operations.
So let's say I want to do a filter.
So here I am doing a filtering right.
If salary greater than 3000 count plus plus right.
So salary greater than 3000.
So this is filtering.
So I am doing a filter dot filter.
Don't worry about this.
What all methods are present and how to use that for now concentrate.
That second step is the intermediate operation.
So this is one of the intermediate operation.
So filter and you already know that lambda expression it extensively use the lambda expression.
So filter.
So it will take put this lambda expression that salary greater than 3000.
Right.
So what it will do is it will filter from this stream whatever the data it is going through this second
intermediate operation, it will filter out and keep only those which are salary greater than 3000.
Right.
And this is the third step is the terminal operation.
So I did dot count.
So count is one of the terminal operation.
Again don't worry about what all operations are there how to use it.
Just see that this stream has three steps.
Open a stream.
We can add one or more intermediate.
And that is also not one or more.
I would say that zero or more.
So it is not mandatory to use intermediate operation.
So zero or more intermediate operation.
And after that you can put at least 1 or 1 terminal operation.
So count I put it.
So after this filter whatever the stream has because this filter have also this filter also have output
the stream.
Now this stream has whatever the data.
Right.
So now here I am.
The next is count.
So it will count it.
So what?
What will have 123.
So it's count would be three.
So here it should print three.
So in both the cases output would be total employee with salary greater than 3000 is three.
Okay.
So don't worry about this filter count and all.
Just what I wanted to tell you about this.
Step three step.
So three step should be at least clear to you.
That first step is create a stream from the data source.
Second step is zero or more intermediate operation.
Third step is you have to have one terminal operation right.
And that will actually return the output.
Okay.
Now let's comes into the picture.
What are the different ways to create a stream.
From collection.
So now let's say I have created a list of salary, right?
So I have created a list ArrayList.
Simple, right?
So from this list, if you wanted to create or open a stream, we can create that dot stream method.
I have told you that the collection has this expose this stream method.
We can call that and it will give us a stream of integer, right?
Second is from array.
So let's say if your data source is an integer array.
So this is an integer array.
And then you have the data.
Now if you wanted to create a stream how you can create it like this.
Arrays dot stream and give the array.
So this will give you a stream of integer again.
So arrays dot stream.
You can use it for integer array or array.
Actually string array, whatever.
It could be array from array then from with the help of static method.
So here if you see that uh we can use uh stream dot off and then you can put all the values here.
Right.
So stream is a class here.
Inside this stream there is a method called off.
You can put a value there at like whatever.
So here we will see that it should have off method.
Here.
So.
Right.
So it will take a off method and through which you can put all the values which you wanted.
You can put it in here right.
And it will create a stream out of it.
So third one is from static method.
So this is a static method of right.
So this is the one actually we have used the variable arguments one we can provide a list kind of this
thing.
This is a variable argument right?
Three dots three dots one.
Okay.
From stream builder.
So there is like a method called uh there is one design pattern.
Also if you remember from the right, uh, builder pattern.
So here from the stream you can create dot builder method.
So it will give us a stream builder stream dot builder object.
Now what we can do is we can add stream builder dot add whatever the values you wanted to add.
Right after that we will do stream builder dot build.
It will give us a stream.
So this is another way of creating a stream.
Another way is from the stream.
Iterate.
So there is a stream dot.
Iterate right?
There is one more method expose iterate.
So this first one is the starting point.
So let's say I wanted to start from 1000.
After that is how you want it to increment.
So I wanted to increment like uh n plus 5000.
So like 1000 uh like five, 5000.
So it would be 6000, then 11,000, then 16,000.
Right.
So generally this is the start point.
And this is like another is like how you gonna perform or how you want to increment that value.
Right.
So I want to increment like plus 5000.
Right now this is generally we call this as an uh kind of an infinite iterate.
It will keep on running running running.
So we have to somewhere stop.
Right.
So that's where we have to always use it with dot limit.
Right.
So here what we will do is.
Dot.
Iterate.
Starting is thousand.
Increment it by 5000.
And how much we wanted dot limit limited till five.
So 123.
Then it will do this.
Then this 512345.
So this it will create a stream of this the stream of integer like this.
It will create using the iterate.
So iterate is generally it will keep on iterating.
Keep on iterating.
So where we have to stop it has to be stop or defined by this dot limit.
So iterate has to be used with the limit okay.
So these are the different ways through which we can do.
Step one create a stream okay.
Now second step what are the different intermediate operations exist.
So we can chain multiple intermediate operations together to perform more complex processing.
Before applying terminal operation to produce the result.
That's what I told you.
Zero or more intermediate operations can be put together.
Okay, now let's see that intermediate operations which are present.
Right.
Very important.
So first is filter right.
So here I am creating I'm creating uh, this stream dot off using a static method.
So let's say I've created a stream of.
Hello everybody.
How are you doing?
Right.
So it's a stream of string.
Okay.
So what is this?
So I got a stream, right?
Now the second step, which is we are doing is intermediate operation.
So out of this stream for intermediate input is stream.
Output is also stream right.
And this is like intermediate operation.
So intermediate operation here is filter.
So input is stream stream dot filter.
This is an intermediate operation.
So now let's see once the filter part here.
Filter method where it goes.
Yeah.
So this method is taking this predicate right.
This is the functional interface.
And what does it take.
So this is the abstract method right.
And it accepts one parameter and return whether true or false.
Right.
So this is the predicate which it takes.
So here it accepts one input parameter.
And what it has to do I am putting a condition here.
Name whatever the name.
So it will first this, this this.
Right.
So inside this filter, what it will do is it will iterate.
It will iterate over your collections or streams.
It will iterate over your stream.
And what it will do is it will call that predicate.
It will call that predicate.
And this predicate has one abstract method which accepts one value, which accept one value.
Right.
So this filter method, this filter method will iterate over this values and pass it to the predicate.
So first it will pass.
Hello.
So the name would be hello.
And what it has to do is this name dot length less than equals to three.
Right.
If it is less than equal to three then it would return true as the predicate.
We see that it should return true.
And this filter method, what it does is if it become true, then it will add it into the next stream.
Right.
So here less than equals to three.
True.
So what it will do is it will add it into the stream.
So next everybody is it greater than equals to true.
Uh great.
Uh less than equals to three.
No.
So it will not get added into the stream.
Hello.
Will also not get added.
How?
Less than or equal to three.
Yes.
So this is currently added into the stream.
Are also added into the stream.
You also added into the stream doing.
No.
Okay.
So the output of this is also an stream.
This is also an stream.
Okay.
After this what.
To get an output we need a terminal operator.
Right.
So terminal operator is there are so many.
So this is just one.
So I am collecting this data in a list.
So this dot collect.
So whatever the stream is there I am doing dot collect right to a list and it will give me the data
into the list.
So now if you print that data what it would be.
How are you?
This three things will get there in the list.
Okay so.
This is the function like filter which can be used to filter the element.
Second is map right.
It is used to transform each element.
So here if you see that first map.
Okay.
So this map is using which functional interface function.
And this has.
So this is a functional interface.
So functional interface has one abstract method.
So this abstract method accepts one value and also return also.
Right?
So.
First I am creating a stream.
I am opening a.
So this is my step one.
I'm creating a stream.
Hello everybody.
How are you doing?
Same example.
Now I am doing dot map.
I am putting an intermediate operation dot map and in the dot map internally, what it will do is it
will iterate over each element.
It will iterate over each element and it will call the predicate.
So here in this if you see this, what it will do is it will iterate.
It will iterate and call this predicate right.
And it simply put it into the downstream.
Downstream is like whatever the stream it is creating, it is added a new stream and it is keep adding
the data into the stream which will go down.
So it will iterate over each element and it will pass it to the predicate or not predicate.
It will pass it to this function, function or interface to this one.
And we will define what we have to do.
So it accepts one parameter because it will pass this value right.
So string name what I have to do I have to make it like I make it a smaller case.
So it will return this right name dot two lower case.
It will return that one.
So it was added into collected into a stream.
And again after that if you do collect and print it what it would be like.
Hello everybody.
How are you doing.
But if you see everything is in smaller letter.
So when it input is everything was capital and after this stream or map function everything is smaller.
So it is used to transform each element.
Okay.
The third one is flatMap, right?
So this flatMap is like uh, I think we already know that flatMap, right?
What does it does?
So if you have a complex collection like I have list of list.
So let's say you have a complex collection like this list of list.
And this is also have a list.
This also have kind of this.
So you have like 1234 list of list.
Right 56789 ten 1112.
So what it will do is flat flatMap.
It will just make it flat like it.
So if you put this into, uh, stream and inside a flatMap Map.
Intermediate operation.
What?
So output would be a stream of.
Let's say this is our integer.
So stream of integer it just make it flat 12345678.
Now it will not be a list of list.
It's just a values string, like a stream.
Then we can collect in an array or list or like that.
So for this I have created a list of list of string.
Right.
So here I have list like I love Java.
Then concepts are clear.
Then we have it's very easy like this.
Then what is the first step is the first step is get the stream from your data source or collection.
So from this source list I have opened a stream, created a stream.
Now second is putting an intermediate operation.
So this is my second step.
I am putting a intermediate operation that is flatMap right here.
I'm putting a flat map.
And here let's see that what flatMap accept.
So flatMap is accepting.
So it would be inside this flatMap.
So flatMap is also accepting the function only.
So it has it will accept one uh parameter and it will return the output.
Right.
So here in the flatMap.
So it will iterate over each element of this list.
And it will pass each element to this functional interface abstract method.
So each element is nothing but a list of string.
So list of string will go.
And what I have to do is convert each of them to a simple sentence.
Whatever the list is, I converting it to just a stream, right?
Converting it just a stream, right?
So it will just goes to the flatMap and internally flatMap.
Just simply add it.
So here if you go there right.
So here what it will do is it will call each like this right.
And each element it will pass it to the function interface.
So function interface is accepting lambda expression one parameter.
And what I am doing is I am just returning its stream.
So it's a stream would be like I love Java.
So this is return its stream.
Then second it will go.
It will pass its stream.
So what flatMap will do is flatMap will just add create one more stream and it keep adding on top of
it.
Like it will keep appending, right?
And after all is done, it will have just one stream which all the values.
So what would be the if we just do?
Like this collection two list.
If we take it in a collection and print it.
So it would be like I love Java.
Concepts are clear.
It's very easy.
It's like this only there is nothing like list of list something.
It's just a list of string.
Right.
So that you can do.
And also one more thing.
You can use flatMap also like let's say the same example, right?
I have first step convert it to a stream.
Second using flatMap while iterating over each element and the functional interface.
Right.
So here for this sentence whatever this I have to make it a stream.
So I have because this is a collection also.
Right.
This is again a collection.
So for I am creating a stream out of it.
Right.
I am creating a stream.
So what it will do is I can also change this value.
So it was earlier capital.
I love Java so I can also perform more intermediate operation inside this.
Right.
And I change it to lowercase so whenever it is returning the stream.
So while small lowercase letter right.
So that is also you can take advantage of flatMap.
Right.
So here if you see I got a single stream with all small case.
Right.
So inside a flatMap, uh, when this uh, functional interface method got invoked right Write for this
list, I have created a stream like just a sequence of strings.
I can even add intermediate operation on top of it also.
Cool.
So used to iterate over each element of the complex collection and helps to flatten it.
Then we have distinct.
It removes duplicate from the stream.
So let's say you have an integer array which has certain duplicate.
Now we have to remove it.
How?
Using distinct we can do it.
So arrays dot stream.
So this is the first step to create a stream out of an array array.
Second is putting an intermediate operation.
So I am using a distinct.
So what distinct will do is internally it will iterate over each element and perform a logic to remove
the duplicate.
So output of this would be a stream a stream without duplicate elements, right?
So here I got a stream.
If I put a terminal operator and get it into a list and print it, I will get this.
No duplicates.
Similarly, a sorted as the name says, that sorts the element.
So I have an integer.
I created a stream and then put a intermediate operation sorted so its output would be again a stream
only, but the sorted 1012244579 earlier this one.
Unsorted.
This is sorted.
Right.
So here you can also use sorted.
And you can also put a.
Comparator comparable.
You can provide it.
So let's say if you want to sort in a descending order.
Right.
So you already know that how comparator works.
right?
So you can do well to minus well one inside are sorted.
So it will sort in a descending order.
So there is another called peak.
So what peak will do is nothing like here it do consumer.
So what consumer does let's say that.
Peak.
So what this so it inside a peak it will iterate over each element.
It will iterate over each element, each element of the stream.
And it will call this consumer.
It has one method.
So it will accept one parameter but doesn't return anything.
So here.
So this is the list I am creating a stream.
Step one.
And they are like intermediate operation right.
So let's say this is I am doing filter value greater than two.
So here it will filter like a value greater than two would be three, four, six right.
Then here I am doing peek.
So peek accept iterate over each element.
And for each value it will print because it is not returning anything.
Right.
System.out.println.
It will print right.
So you can use it for printing peaking.
Right.
Then another is limit.
So limit is you can always limit out of this stream how much.
Uh truncate the stream to no longer than the given max size.
So now let's say this is a list.
I have first created a stream out of it, but I want to truncate all the data out of this stream and
only want to keep the three.
So what it will do is limit.
I can put limit three.
So it will just put this three.
So whatever the stream it will return it will have only two one.
Three.
Now I can put terminal operator, take it out on a list and print it 213.
Similarly we have skip skip the first n element of the stream.
So you have a data.
Create a stream out of it.
Now this intermediate operation skip.
So it will skip first three.
So from the stream.
So it will have this stream which will have four comma six.
Only if we put a terminal operator and print it for comma six will be there in the stream.
And then there would be map to n.
So here uh this is also another important thing is that here let's say helps to work with the primitive
int data type.
There would be like map to long which helps to primitive long data type.
So for example, let's say you have let's say see this example first.
Let's say you have an integer array.
But this is primitive data type right.
Primitive data type.
Now you know that there are for this primitive data type how you can create a stream.
So here we can create arrays dot stream right.
And put this integer array right.
What it will return it will return us int stream.
This is very.
Now here it is not returning us stream.
It is returning us int stream.
This is very very specific for primitive integer data type right.
All other methods are same here.
But only this thing is.
This int stream is very specific for primitive integer right.
So here I have created.
First step is I created a Stream.
But here in this case this is int stream.
Now the second step again the same thing.
Nothing got deferred.
I can do filter.
Now see here I can easily work on the primitive data types with the normal stream right with list of
integer and all.
If you are trying to do filter and all you, you won't be able to use int over here.
No.
For that you need int stream.
Right.
So with an integer array when arrays dot stream you can get an int stream.
And then you can do filter.
And you like this anyway.
Normal.
It will work but it can also work with the primitive data type also.
So again another usage of the is let's say you have list of string 2147.
But these are string.
Now here if you see that the first step, I created a stream.
Now second, there is one method map to int right this map to int.
So here inside this map to int, what it will do is that it will convert it to an string.
Right.
So this map to end it might be taking function only map to int.
So it will take this.
So this is the function interface.
It will accept and return the integer right.
It return the integer.
So it will accept anything whether a string or any other value because it's a generic type right.
So map to int will iterate over each element and it will pass it to this function interface.
Right.
So for each element what I'm doing is converting it to Integer.parseint.
So I'm am returning the integer value.
So 2147.
Now in integer form.
So now it is returning int stream.
Returning int stream which is specific for integer small primitive integer type.
And I can convert it to array.
This is a terminal operator and I can get an array and print it.
So map to int is for you got it right.
Map to int is like you can use this like convert it into an integer like this one use case I have showed
you similarly map to map to double.
Can you try it and post it in the comment section one use case which you are using it.
So here these are the 1011 are most frequently used.
Generally intermediate operations I have showed you right.
But now you might be asking like hey you were saying that they are called as lazy?
Why?
Right now, let me show you an example.
So here I'm creating a normal simple class stream example and this is a main method.
This is just my collection or list 2147 ten.
Nothing.
No difference.
Right?
So first step I am doing is from this collection I am creating a stream.
Second is I am putting an intermediate operation filtering this data.
After filtering I am also doing peeking and while peeking I am printing this value right?
I'm printing this value.
So this is.
I haven't used terminal operation yet, so peek is again a intermediate operation.
So output is again a stream.
Now I am running the code.
When you run the code what output you will get nothing.
You won't see anything in the output.
You can say that.
Hey.
Why?
Because, uh.
So you can say that, right?
Hey.
Why?
I haven't seen anything.
Numbers dot stream.
I have opened a stream for this.
Number 2147 ten.
I have done a filter greater than equals to three.
So this should have returned the stream which is greater than three, four, seven, ten.
Then I am doing a peeking intermediate operation where I'm doing System.out.println.
So it should print four 710 right.
It should print four, 710.
Why it is not printing.
So it is known as lazy.
And when I say that lazy means this streams get only executed when terminal operation is invoked.
So now the same thing.
But now for this stream.
Whichever I got Now I am calling the terminal operation numbers stream.
I am putting a terminal.
This is count is one of the terminal operation count.
So what is the count?
One.
Two.
Three.
So three.
So now at this point of time, when it is terminal operation is invoked, this stream actually start
running.
And it will see you will see the output System.out.println.
Val four 710.
So this is the input to the peak right.
So it will print four 710.
So that's why it is known as lazy.
Now I will tell you one more very interesting property of the stream.
You will see that.
Hey what's happening man?
Like this is something new.
So sequence of stream operations.
Okay.
See this?
Okay.
So here.
Till now.
This is very basic.
I have written whatever we have studied till now.
I am creating a stream out of this list.
Nothing new.
So I have used a filter.
Then I am doing peaking.
Then I am doing mapping.
Whatever the value comes after the filter.
Uh, I'm just negating it.
Then I'm again peaking.
System.out.println.
Then I'm sorting it and again picking it.
So this is the stream right.
And this is the terminal operator I have put so that this stream should get run right now what is the
expected output.
So my expected output should be what I'm expecting.
How stream should be working.
So let me have visually have this.
Like first I have created a stream.
So it would be like I have all the values two, one, four, seven, ten.
So a pipeline got created.
The stream got created.
Now first is filter.
So first barrier is filter.
Greater than equals to three.
Right.
So my expectation is first when this stream pass of this barrier or operation filter.
So its output will also be a stream.
Right.
So what it will do is it will filter only greater than equals to three.
So two will get removed one will get removed.
So four 710 would be there in the filter.
Right.
So this stream has four 710.
The second operation is peak.
So this is peak.
So in peak we am just printing out after filter what are the stream.
So four 710.
So it should print System.out.println four, then seven, then ten.
Right.
Then the next operation is map.
So in map what I'm doing is for each four 710 what I'm doing is I'm negating it minus four.
So it will whatever the it is coming four 710 it will put minus four, minus seven, minus ten.
It will do this.
Then after that we have peek again.
So I have peek again.
So peek again I am just System.out.println.
After negating.
So this is the stream is coming to the peek minus four minus seven minus ten.
So it will print that.
So it should print minus four minus seven minus ten okay.
So this peek is just printing, but nothing else.
Then after that, sorted.
So there is one more operation.
There is one more operation now.
Sorted.
So what was the stream which is coming?
Minus four, minus seven, minus ten.
So sorted with sort into an uh.
I am doing a increasing order.
Natural order.
So it would sort like minus ten, minus seven, minus four.
Right.
In increasing order, it sorted, it converted the stream and the last is again peek.
System.out.println.
After sorted what is.
So it will print minus ten minus seven minus four.
So my expectation is that when the terminal operator is invoked and this stream get executed, it should
print this expected output whatever the expected output I have figured out.
Right.
This is what my understanding till now is.
But now let's see the expected output.
You will also get, uh, little bit surprised to see that.
Hey, this is how the stream works.
Let's see that one.
Right.
This is very interesting.
Okay.
Let's see the expected output which actually is present.
You able to see right.
So here if you see the expected output is it matching with our actual output.
Does matching with our expected output.
Hey.
No for first it is doing after filter then after negating.
But we are expecting like this right.
But here if you see these are how they are printed, how they have worked.
First it say after filter, then after negating then after filter seven after negative minus seven.
How it worked.
I will tell you how it works.
So here are again let's say we have six operation right.
So we have filter.
We have then peak we have then map then we have peak then we sought then we again peak.
And what is the stream which first comes to is that.
214.
Seven.
Ten.
Two.
One.
Four.
Seven.
Ten.
Okay.
So when?
Now.
See how it works.
So now what stream works?
Is it?
Pick one element it, pick one element it, give it to the filter.
Or when it passes to the stream, right.
Pipeline it, give it to the filter right.
So it will do.
Filter.
Hey, does two is greater than equals to three?
No it's not.
So this one is remove from the stream for the filter.
Now it goes one.
Hey one is one is greater than equals to three.
No it is not.
So again this is also got filtered.
Then it comes four.
Then it comes here four.
Four is greater than equals to three.
Yes.
Right now it doesn't go stream doesn't go like okay now it will goes to seven.
It's not like so what it will do is it will try to go as much as possible.
So after filter four it goes down to the peak.
Next operation.
So it will print after filter for then it goes down to the map.
What it do is minus one.
So it does minus four.
After that it goes to the down peak.
It is after minus four printed.
But here, if you see that now it is going seven.
After that it is not going bottom right.
Why?
Because there are certain operations.
Right.
Which can be run like this.
But there are certain intermediate operation for which it required all the data to be present first.
Right.
Like sorted.
So sorted.
First of all, the whole stream should be present.
It cannot work on a partial stream like so.
That's why sorted didn't work like here.
After this four minus four seven comes.
So it pick the next element seven.
Right.
So seven is greater than equals to three.
Yes.
So it will peak.
So it will print seven.
After that it will negating it minus seven inside a map.
And then it goes to peak again.
So it will do minus seven.
But again for sorting it's not yet started because the stream knows that it has to have complete stream
available for the sorted.
So then it goes to ten.
Yes ten is greater than equals to three.
Yes, it will pick it up ten.
It will convert it to minus ten.
Then it will goes to peak.
It will print it minus ten.
Now stream has all the data for minus four, minus seven, minus ten.
It will do sort.
And then it will goes to peak again one by one.
So minus ten minus seven minus four.
Right.
So you got it.
What happened?
So here it tries to one element.
It goes sequentially first of all.
So stream goes sequentially and it's not.
And for one element if this operation doesn't require all the stream, all the stream to be all the
stream elements to be present, it goes pass it to the next operation.
It goes and check.
Hey, does you require all operation to be all elements to be present in stream?
No.
Then execute me.
Then execute me like this.
Right.
So this is also added one more advantage to the stream like so this elements process sequentially can
perform multiple operations like this which are right.
And this will give you one more advantage.
For example understand this use case.
You have a huge list, let's say of.
1 million elements.
Let's say huge stream.
Now you have one.
So you have multiple operations, and you have one operation that return any value greater than three.
That's all any value.
Return it.
Return true.
Let's say I want to just return true if any value is greater than three.
Right.
I have let's say four.
Now four is coming okay.
Past operation, past operation, past.
And as soon as any value greater than three.
Yes.
Four is greater than three.
It is.
Stop.
So here, if you see that even at the second it stop, it doesn't have to process the complete stream
at every step to start.
Right.
But there are certain operations like one of them is sorted, which required all stream to be present
before itself, all stream to be present before itself to start.
But many operations are there, which doesn't require all stream data to be present.
So for individual element also they can work.
Right.
So that's one of the advantage of the stream also.
Now let's see one more.
Uh now let's see different terminal operations we have.
So currently we have seen two step how to create a stream.
How to create uh what are the different intermediate operations.
Now let's see what are the different terminal operations.
So terminal operations are the ones that produce the result.
It triggers the processing of the stream.
So first is for each right.
So for each perform action on each element of the stream do not return any value.
So it's just like a peak.
But it's kind of a you can say that terminal operator.
So here I have a list of integer.
So first step I created a stream.
Second step I added a intermediate operation.
Not mandatory to add or you can skip it also.
Then I am just printing it kind of for each element for each value.
Uh it will just print it because this is the one have one, uh, function interface which accept one
value but doesn't return it.
Right.
But since this for each is your terminal, so it will trigger the execution of this stream.
So it will filter.
Greater than equals to three.
Right.
So for 710 will get printed for each with this one.
Similarly one more is two array.
So here you have an array list.
So first step created a stream out of it.
Second is adding an intermediate operation.
Now what I want to do is I want to collect it whatever the stream intermediate operation will return
I have to collect it.
So you when you do two array right it will return object array.
So here inside a stream you have two array.
So this is a terminal operation right.
Here it is.
Return.
This is a terminal operation.
And it returning object array.
But now you can ask that hey like I wanted a specific value in a specific data type array like integer
string array.
How to do that.
You can do that like the first step create a stream.
Second is like intermediate operation.
Nothing changed.
Now inside a two array you can use another flavor where you are just asking that create this integer
type.
So here it take a size.
So here it has one more flavor two array right.
So it has a two array.
The value is nothing but a size.
This right.
The size and output is your.
Array.
I am creating a new integer array of this size.
Right.
So you will get an integer array whatever the stream data you have.
Then another is reduce.
So what this reduce will do.
So here if you see that the first step for this list I have get out a stream.
Now what this reduce will do does reduction on the element of the stream perform associative aggregation
function.
What does it mean.
Associative aggregation function.
So here if you see that 147 ten.
Let's say I want to add two two elements.
First two plus one three.
Then my data would be like this.
Then three plus four, seven, then seven, ten, then seven plus seven, 14, ten, then 14 plus ten,
24.
So this is like associative aggregation function aggregation like sum multiply something.
Right.
And associate.
Associate like this.
So first is done it will become.
Now do with the next one.
Then do with the next one.
Now do with the next one.
Okay so with the reduce is a terminal operation it accepts by binary operation.
So here if you see that.
Reduce.
So binary operation is your it's a functional interface right.
So this is not a Abstract method.
So it would be abstract method would be here.
Okay.
So it accept two values two parameter and return one thing.
So it accept two values and return one thing.
Whatever I wanted to do.
Do I want you to do value one plus value two.
So what it will do is it will pass two to value out of this two plus one three then three plus four,
seven, then seven plus seven, 14, then 14 plus ten, 24.
So it reducing it reducing your stream by performing associative aggregation function.
So now this is a terminal operation.
You will get it return the optional return value.
Reduce value integer.
So when you print it you will get 24.
So optional means like uh it can be null.
Also it can be you can check with It reduced value.
Dot is empty whether it is empty or not, that it's just a wrapper so that it.
You can say that just a way to avoid null pointer exception you can check is empty or not, right?
But if you do dot get it will return the value which has so dot get I got a 24.
You got it right.
Associative aggregation function.
If I do value one into value two, what it will do is two into one two, then two into four eight,
then eight into seven.
Then like this.
Then we have collect.
I have already shown you the collect can be used to collect the element of the stream into a list.
So you have a list.
So first step create a stream.
Second is any intermediate operation then whatever.
So intermediate operation returns you the stream only.
So this is the terminal operation that I am doing collector dot two list.
So it will help me to collect the stream data into a list.
So I have a list now.
Then there is something called min max right?
Finds the minimum or the maximum element from the stream based on the comparator provided.
Very very simple.
You have a collection.
You create a stream, added a filter greater than equals to three.
So means four seven, ten would be generally should be there.
When I do dot minimum, I am doing value one minus value two.
So means I wanted a natural ordering.
So natural ordering like increasing order.
So dot minimum would be return four right.
It return an optional this thing.
Similarly when I do value two minus value one means I sorted in a decreasing order, and when I do minimum
so it will return ten.
So generally, if you see that, I would say that this minimum is a wrong name, I would say that the
first in a sorted in a sorted stream, whether it's a increasing order sorted or decreasing order sorted,
it will get the first element right.
So for 710 when it was minimum value one minus value two means an increasing order.
So dot min gives me the four.
And let's say if I have a minimum and.
But I pass the comparator as value two minus value one.
Internally it will sort in a decreasing order.
So it will give me the first element itself.
Ten right.
Similarly you can test for the max also.
Then we have count.
You already know that the count returns the element number of elements present in the stream, so you
have a stream.
Step one.
Step two.
You filter out for 710 dot count so it will return three.
Now another is any match.
Check if any value in the stream match the given predicate and returns the boolean right.
So here from this list I created a stream second c.
Now here I have don't using any intermediate because intermediate I told you zero or many, so it is
not mandatory to use.
I am using any any match value greater than three.
So yes two one for yes.
So it will return true.
Any right.
So it will return true.
Can you do try this all and none all means if all match the Have condition, it should return true.
None means if none of the value match it, then only it should return true.
It's very, very like simple.
Like by knowing itself, we can know that behavior.
How it works.
Find first.
Find the first element of the stream.
So here you have created the stream.
From this collection I have filtered out the element.
It would be four, seven, ten find.
First it will return four.
Okay.
Find any will give you a random value for 710.
And if you do find any it will return anything seven, 10 or 4.
Whatever.
Find any random element to the stream.
Okay so these so we here we have seen how to create a stream.
What are the different intermediate operation.
And what are the different terminal operations we can have?
Now here I will show you one more thing.
How many times we can use a single stream?
This is also.
You see that I told you stream is created at this point and at the terminal operation.
So this is the terminal operation.
This is the, uh, this is the second step.
Uh, so here.
Sorry, this is not the second step.
So this is the intermediate operation.
And this is for each is the terminal operation.
So whenever this is the terminal operation.
So whenever the terminal operation is invoked a stream is get executed.
And after this one it, it closes the stream.
Or you can say that consume the stream.
Now if you try to use this stream again.
Filtered number.
Stream.
I'm trying to use this stream again.
Filter number dot.
Collect.
I'm trying to perform any operation.
It return me.
This exception stream has already been operated upon or closed.
Done so once.
A terminal operation is executed.
It closes the stream.
It closes the stream which was started right after that.
On this stream you cannot work more.
So from this number or collection.
You have to create another stream and then work on it.
Okay, so just remember that one on a stream, once closed cannot be used.
You have to create new stream.
And at last we have to see that parallel stream.
Also see.
This is to be honest, in last eight years I haven't used parallel stream.
We have used lot of stream in our day to day code, but parallel stream is very less frequently used.
But it's still from the interview perspective.
It's good to know, so it helps to perform operation on stream concurrently.
It takes an advantage of the multi-core CPU parallel stream method is used instead of regular stream
method, right?
So let's before this going, let's see that I'll show you an example.
So here I have a collection I have put a 11 table 11 number.
Table 11 2233 and all.
Now this is the sequential processing whatever we have done till now.
So from this collection I am creating a stream first.
Right.
I am doing an intermediate operation.
I'm doing map and multiplying it with the number.
So I'm.
You can say that I'm just squaring it up.
Right.
So again it would be output would be stream.
And I'm doing for each I'm just printing it out.
Right.
And so before starting this stream I have taken out the time um millisecond time.
What was that?
And after this invocation of this terminal operation stream would get completed.
So now I'm just printing out that sequential processing time taken.
Current time.
Current time minus this time before the stream started.
So that will give you a diff, right?
How much time it took?
That much second.
Now if I wanted to do the parallel processing of the same, what exact same code.
But here if you see that first I have taken out the time.
What is the current time?
Then I'm creating the stream parallel stream.
So here, if you see that from the collection you we were doing dot stream.
So this dot stream creates a sequential stream for parallel.
We have to do dot parallel stream right.
So dot parallel stream.
That's the only difference.
So numbers dot dot parallel stream.
So first step is we have created a parallel stream.
Second step same intermediate operation.
Multiplying it by this third is terminal operation and just printing out the value.
And this terminal operation will execute this stream parallel stream.
And I'm printing out current time minus this parallel time diff millisecond.
So here if you see that this is the sequential printed because of this sequential and sequential take
64 milliseconds.
Now for this parallel processing it will again print it out.
This value.
Right.
Parallel processing time.
Take only five milliseconds.
See?
It's faster.
Why?
Parallel processing is faster?
Because it doing the task concurrently.
How it doing?
What it is?
Whatever the task is, it will divide into subtasks.
Then it can.
Subtask can be divided into more subtasks.
Right.
And after that each sub stars can be run parallely.
It can be run parallely.
Right.
If you have let's say four core CPU, then on each core it can run concurrently itself, right?
It can run concurrently at the same time.
And then we can join the result.
We can join the results and ultimately shows the output.
So this is known as fork join pool technique.
So parallel stream use fork join pool technique to perform the operation concurrently in the fork.
Join fork means divide.
Join means whatever the subtask we have divided.
Every time fork is called as task has been divided into subtasks, the smaller task and join it joins
the result.
So this fork join I will cover into the next our next topic multithreading right.
Because it's multithreading part.
But parallel stream internally uses fork join pool technique to do this parallel processing concurrently.
Right.
So I will cover it into the multithreading topic.
So in multithreading we have thread executor run and fork join is also one more topic also.
So here, if you see that parallel stream, just we see that, uh, I wanted to show you before we come
so parallel stream.
So here, uh, then this collection we have parallel stream.
Yeah.
So whenever from the collection, we are creating a parallel stream.
So here, if you see that it call a split iterator right here, it calls a split iterator.
And if you see this split iterator I will go to ArrayList something.
Right.
So here.
This has a split iterator has one method called try split.
So let's go inside this try split.
See this logic.
What it does is.
This big task which we have like let's say we have this task.
One, two, three.
Let's say this is the collection.
123456789 ten.
So what it does is when you call parallel stream parallel stream, what parallel stream will do is it
will pass this data to a split iterator.
Now inside the split iterator there is a method called try split.
So what it will do is this split iterator has the complete collection now.
So now what will happen is recursively it will call try split.
So what it will do is it will find the mid.
And after finding the mid what it will do is it will create a new split iterator.
So it will split it 123456789 ten.
This is again now split iterator.
traitor.
This is again now a split traitor.
Now again on this split a traitor.
Split it in traitor.
Split a traitor is an interface.
So there is a method.
Try split.
So you can again split it.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
Let's say 910.
So this is again a split iterator.
Split iterator.
These are all split iterator object now.
So who who take the responsibility of splitting the task.
It's the split iterator.
Inside a split iterator there is a method called split which takes out a mid and split it.
And this method has been called by parallel stream function and it called recursively to divide into
a smaller, smaller data.
Now, after the data has been split into smaller chunks, What parallel stream do is it will give this
smaller chunks to fork join pool technique.
Hey, these are the smaller chunk data.
Now you take care of it.
You execute them into uh, different uh concurrently.
Or if you want to divide it further, divide it, do fork it.
Do it like you wish.
I have given you the smaller chunks which I wanted to execute parallelly.
Now you try to run them parallel, right?
So this is how parallel stream works.
Fork join pool.
I'll tell you in the next topic multi-threading.
But this is all totally about stream right from start to end.
Any doubt question like please feel free to ping me in the comment section team.
Uh, and but with this collection is completed, multi-threading is going to be the next topic.
Okay, guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Multithreading and Concurrency - Part1 | Threads, Process and their Memory Model ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to start multi-threading.
And these are the list of sub topics which I have come up with.
So I will go with this list itself so that we don't miss any topic in the multi-threading and concurrency.
Right.
Uh, don't worry, I will post this, uh, the list into the description section so you can refer it,
and I will complete this in part.
So in today's part I will cover this too.
So this is the part one video of it okay.
So let's start our multi-threading and concurrency part one.
Okay.
So introduction of multi-threading.
So before we talk about multi-threading right.
Or what are the different threads.
And all we have to first understand what is thread and what is process.
This is one of the most asked interview question.
And don't underestimate this question, because I have seen many good engineers getting stuck into this
question, right?
Because there are so many follow up questions can come into this.
And at one point engineer do get stuck as this is very, very important questions and lot of logics
are building around it.
Right.
So let's see that how actually they are differs and how they are actually related.
What is thread and process.
So just look at this diagram.
You will get one glance that okay we have a process.
And inside a process we have multiple threads right.
And that's where you will find the definition across all over the internet that processes instance of
a program that is getting executed.
Yeah.
Let's read it again.
Process is an instance of a program that is getting executed.
Now what does it mean?
Okay, what what do you mean by that?
Program that is getting executed is called process.
I'll tell you what does it mean?
Suppose that you have a you have one Java file test dot Java.
This has your public static public static void main.
String args.
Right.
And you have your code.
Now what?
The first thing you have to do is to have to run it.
You have to do compile it.
You have to do Java C test dot Java.
Right.
The first step compilation Java C test dot Java.
What it will do.
It will generate the byte code that can be executed by the JVM.
Now it the bytecode which is generated by it.
Now we have to execute it how we will execute it.
We have to run it like Java test, right?
When we do executed what we will do, JVM starts the new process at this point of time.
So that's why the name or you can say the definition of process says that it is an instance of a program
that is getting executed.
So now here if you see we are executing our program.
We are executing our program after we executed whatever the output has to become, you will show into
the console, right?
So whenever you are doing execution your program, at that point JVM starts the new process, right?
And that's how generally the definition which says that a program that is getting executed is known
as process.
But generally it is not known as process.
It is generally at that time process is created.
Right.
So there are lot of Things is required when a program is getting executed.
It required a lot of resources like memory.
And all right.
So process provide all these things right.
So we will see uh soon at that point also.
So this first step is clear right.
Process is an instance of a program that is getting executed.
Second it has its own resource like memory thread etc. OS allocate these resources to process when it
is created.
So I told you right to execute a program.
It required a lot of resources like memory.
So OS takes care of allocating these resources to process.
So now what happens is okay you are executing a program JVM creates a.
Process.
Right?
I have a process one.
This process requires certain resources like memory also.
So what happened is it has its own memory, let's say heap memory.
So when let's say another process is getting created, process two it has its own memory.
Its heap memory.
Right.
So there these two processes are totally independent of each other.
They have their own memory.
Right.
And they don't like you can say that they don't disturb each other.
They can run parallelly, right?
They are totally independent of each other.
I know that at this point of time, there are lot of questions coming into your mind that hey, how
this process have their own heap memory because we understand that JVM has their own one heap memory,
JVM has heap memory.
It also maintain stack, right?
Now how this process have their own heap memory.
Don't worry.
I will come to everything.
I know this is where it all things get messy, right?
But we are taking a baby step.
First you need to understand what is process.
So process means whenever you execute a program, a process is created.
Each time a process is created, it has allocated its own resources.
They never share two processes, never share resources to each other.
They have their own resources and they can run parallelly.
Okay, so we have this basic understanding of process.
Don't worry about this.
I will come to this later.
Now what is thread?
Okay, I understand very basic of process now.
Now can you tell me like what is thread with this diagram?
With this diagram we can tell that one process can have multiple threads.
Right.
Okay.
That's right.
One process can have multiple thread, but thread is also known as lightweight process.
But what does it mean?
It means the smallest sequence of instructions that are executed by CPU independently, right?
So whenever we have.
So what does process do?
Process like it is converted the bytecode into machine code.
Right.
You have converted the bytecode into machine code.
Now this machine code has to be executed right.
This has to be executed by CPU right.
This machine code has to be executed.
This machine code is nothing but a sequence of instruction.
So what is thread?
A thread is the smallest sequence of instructions that are executed by the CPU independently.
There can be multiple threads.
So let's say these sequence of instructions are executed by this thread.
This sequence of instructions are executed by this thread.
So that's what thread says.
That smallest sequence of instructions that are executed by CPU independently.
Okay.
When a process is created, it starts with one thread and that initial thread known as main thread.
And from that we can create multiple thread to perform tasks concurrently.
Now let's understand this.
So here if you see this is a very, very basic Java class, I have created a class given a class name
Multi-threading learning and I have put a method public static void main args and I'm just printing
out this thread dot current thread dot get name.
So now when the first I did Java c Multi-thread learning dot Java, it will convert to the byte code.
Now after that I will do Java multithreaded learning.
What it will do is it will execute it.
So what JVM will do is it will create a new process.
Right.
Because this byte code has to be converted to machine code.
Right.
And that machine code need to be run by the CPU.
So it has there need a process.
It required a lot of memory.
Also there are lot of resources required.
So it is just you can say that interface to us Java and the class name.
Now you get the output.
But at the back there are lot of things required to convert bytecode to machine code.
And from machine code it has to be submitted to the CPU and CPU has to run it, and then we will get
the output right.
So all is taken care by the process.
So now when when you are executing this class Java Multithread learning what will happen is a process
is created.
A process will have its own memory, let's say heap memory and one thread will automatically get created.
Right.
And that thread is known as main.
So here if you see that I am printing System.out.println.
Thread name thread dot current thread get name what it printed main.
So that's what it says that when a process is created, it is.
Start with one thread and that initial thread is known as main thread.
So automatically it will create one thread that is known as main thread.
And from that we can create multiple threads to perform tasks concurrently.
So let's say this is your program right?
You have.
This is your main thread.
Main thread.
Main thread is running.
Now you can create thread one and which can perform certain tasks.
You can have thread two which can do certain tasks.
And then after that again you have sequence of instruction which is again followed by main thread only.
Right.
So whenever you execute a code starting point, it process will create one main thread and start executing
the code.
And from this main thread you can initiate more threads, right?
So one process can have multiple threads right.
Process one.
Thread one.
Thread two.
Thread three.
So first of all is process and thread is basic.
Definition is clear.
We will now go level deeper.
But first you have to understand when does the process get created right.
And what is actually process is right.
So whenever we try to execute a program process is created.
Process is nothing.
But you can say that it, uh, it takes care of like execution of the program.
Execution of the program required memory.
Right.
There are, uh, converting bytecode to machine code.
There are so many things happens, uh, and we have to submit to the CPU.
Right.
So there is a process after this step, go to this step, this step to this step that is known as process.
Right.
So whenever we try to execute a program a process is created.
And each process has multiple threads.
And thread is nothing but a smallest sequence of instructions that are executed.
Okay.
So now if the basis is clear we will let's understand a little bit more about process and threads.
Right.
So here is the diagram.
Uh, there are so many things I will try to go In depth of each.
So first understand that like if you remember our initial video right where we have discussed about
memory management and garbage collector.
I have told you that JVM has uh, like one, it has heap, it has stack memory also.
Right?
So JVM has lot of memories.
So here if you go a little bit more depth, JVM has heap stack code segment data segment.
It will have registers, it will have program counter.
And there are so others.
So these are all memory areas right.
Heap and stack is just one where you required garbage collector concepts.
But apart from heap and stack there are so many other memory also like code segment, data segment register
PC right?
So JVM has all of this.
Now why I am telling you all of this now.
So understand this, right?
When we are executing a program Java, let's say your main class are Java main right?
We know that it will execute your program and you will get the output.
But how how internally it works, how it creates a process where it will execute the code that we have
to understand.
So what is the first step.
So first step is it will create a process.
It will create a process.
Second thing is.
A new VM instance, a new JVM instance is created.
So here if you see that the JVM has so many memories.
So whenever a process is created, whenever a new process is created, you can say that a new JVM instance,
a new JVM instance is allocated to that process.
Right?
Because to execute a program you need certain memories, right.
So JVM provide those.
Right.
So whenever a new process is created, a new JVM instance is created and allocated to that process.
And JVM instance has all this memory.
So that's you can see in this diagram.
So now let's say the process is created.
Let's say this is the process which is getting created right this.
So for process two, this is the process which is created now.
For each process a new JVM instance is created.
So here let's say a new JVM instance is created.
So this is process one.
So for it it has JVM instance one.
This is process two.
For it it says JVM instance two different.
Right.
And each JVM instance has all of these memories.
It will have heap memory.
It will have code segment data segment register stack counter.
Right now you can the questions might be coming into your mind here.
Since you have initially told that JVM has, let's say heap heap size, let's say it's heap size is
ten GB.
Assume that right?
This heap is ten GB.
Now, whenever a new process is created, a new instance is given a new JVM instance is given to a process,
right?
And with that a heap memory is also allocated to that process.
So how much heap memory is allocated to it is this process is allowed to use the complete heap of ten
GB?
How much they can use a heap.
Right.
This JVM instance is allowed.
How much heap.
So we can define.
So whenever we create a process.
So when does the create a process is created when we do Java this.
So here we can do this thing.
So this is generally how we run Java.
And your main your class name right.
So generally here if you see that we haven't defined like how much heap memory they can use.
But we can tell that like this.
So hyphen x m s which is for minimum and the size.
So this will set the initial heap size.
So let's say I allocated 256 MB.
So you can do that like this.
Hyphen x m as 256 m.
And if you want to allocate the maximum heap size you can do hyphen x m x size hyphen x m I say 2g which
is for two GB right.
So whatever the process will get created, a new JVM instance will be allocated, and this JVM instance
will use this two operation and allocate a minimum heap size is 256 MB and maximum it can allow is two
GB only if required, and if process is required to allocate more memory right out of memory, error
will come even though the JVM heap has, let's say ten GB.
Overall this has ten GB overall, but whenever a JVM instance is created, we will allocate that whatever
we have tell at the time of process execution, program execution that hey.
Mm.
Let's say only 1G1G.
So only one GB for this.
Another process I can say that okay two GB right.
But whatever the heap memory is being used it is used out of this ten GB only like so no matter how
many JVM instance you can create, let's say if there are ten process ten JVM instance, right.
And if they are using heap memory.
So this heap memory is allocated out of this ten GB only that whatever the total JVM heap memory is
allocated to the JVM.
So first thing is clear it create a process.
And with each process a new JVM instance is created.
Right?
A JVM instance has all this memory space heap memory stack code segment, data segment register PC.
Like this and how they are divided.
So now let's say that we have three threads.
I told you right in a process we have multiple threads.
So now let's say we have three threads.
Thread one, thread two.
Thread three.
So now register stack and counter.
They are locally to each thread.
They do not threads do not share that to each other.
Right.
They do not share to each other.
So these three threads what they do share they do share this code segment.
So here the code segment is shared among all these three threads.
Data segment is shared among all these three threads.
Heap memory is shared among all these three threads, but register, register, stack and counter they
are local to each thread.
Then what?
Let's now first understand what is the use.
Then we will try to see how this all comes into the picture.
Right?
So now let's see first understand what is code segment.
So code segment contains the compiled byte code.
Machine code of the Java program.
So you have this let's say main dot Java file.
You have this main dot Java file.
What is the first step you do.
You have done compilation Java C main dot Java.
What it will generate byte code.
Now when you want to execute it what you will do Java main.
So now what will happen is it will create a process.
It will create a JVM instance.
Right.
And also one more thing will happen is it will initiate right JVM.
Now you can say that when the JVM instance is created now JVM, what it will do is it will interpret
it, interpret it, or use the JIT compiler to convert this bytecode to machine code.
Machine code is generated.
Right?
So when you run Java this when you execute this program, first process will get created.
Second JVM instance will be allocated to that process.
This JVM instance uses its interpreter or JIT compiler to convert this bytecode to machine code.
So this code segment actually stores the compiled bytecode.
Or you can say that the machine code with CPU understand which our CPU understand this machine code.
So that is stored here.
Code segment memory.
What is data segment.
Data segment stores the global and static variable.
So inside your code if you have global variable or static variable.
So these are shared among all the threads.
So all those global data and static data are stored among data segments okay.
Then we have a heap.
Heap is so here uh, one thing I have forgot to tell you in the code segment, it is read only because
once you get the machine code, you can't change it.
No thread can change it.
They can just read that machine code data segment is they have global and static variable threads can
read and modify the same data.
So we need a proper synchronization between threads because threads can change the data which is present
into data segment.
So proper synchronization is required.
Then heap.
So this when this threads are getting executed.
They will definitely create new objects if required.
So whenever they use a new keyword, new objects are allocated a space into the heap.
They are allocated a space into this heap.
Heap is shared among all the threads of the same process, but not within process.
So what I mean is this three threads have this access to this heap memory, but this process do not
share this heap memory.
So all the address which this heap is pointing to is totally different from this heap.
Right.
So ultimately they, they will go into the different address into the main memory like main different
heap.
Right.
JVM has the main heap memory.
So ultimately will they they all get mapped to a different location.
So they are totally different.
Heap memories process one.
Process two to do not share the memory locations.
But this thread one.
Thread two, thread three inside a particular process is sharing this heap memory.
So heap is right.
Thread can read and modify the heap.
Data synchronization is required between multiple threads for the heap.
Whatever the data is present into the heap, the threads can change it also.
Okay, so now you have cleared what does code segment store?
What does data segment store?
What does heap store right.
And heap size can be differed between process to process.
Now let's understand register stack and counter stack.
You know right.
Each thread has its own stack.
It manage method called local variable.
In the first memory management garbage collector I explained stack how stack is maintained.
They maintain local variables and all.
So each thread has their own stack.
Then we have register.
So now what is the use of register.
So you see that CPU also have register these.
They also JVM also has a register.
So this register is used to store some intermediate values right.
So JVM like whenever you execute.
So whenever we convert bytecode into machine code right.
Sometime we have to like reshuffle the instructions.
Right.
And there are certain immediate values.
So all those are stored into the register itself.
Right.
So this register is used right whenever the JIT uses it like whenever it compile convert the bytecode
into machine code.
Right.
It uses register to optimize the machine code generated machine code.
Because machine code instructions can be reshuffled, some intermediate code has to be stored.
Right.
So that is stored inside this register only.
And it also helps in context switching.
I will tell you how very very important each thread its own register.
So each thread has its own stack, each thread its own register.
And let's understand what is counter.
So there is something called counter which is also known as PC which is program counter.
Its points to the instruction which is getting executed.
Increment its counter after successful execution of the instruction.
This is very, very confusing.
Part right points to the instruction which is getting executed.
So I told you that code segment has the machine code right?
Which has to be executed is threads are running.
You can say that some part of the code, what part of the code they have to run the counter points,
the address of that instruction in the code segment.
Okay.
You have to run this part.
You have to run this part of the code segment.
Right.
Don't worry.
Now let's see how this is totally done.
And where this the this is the physical CPU comes into the picture.
But at least you got the concept right.
Code segment data segment your stack register and counter counter like machine code.
Machine code.
Native machine code is present into code segment which CPU understand.
Counter just holds that this thread need to run this instruction.
This thread need to run this instruction.
So all this counter point the address to this code segment instruction which which code this thread
has to run.
But how.
Now let's understand one complete flow.
Okay first I have written one.
Java code.
Let's say main dot Java, right?
And what will happen is I have certain code, and then we have some piece of code which is executed
by thread one.
Let's say this is main thread.
And from this I created thread one which is doing this part of code.
Then we have thread two which is doing this part of the code.
And then again after that this.
Let's say I have written some code like this right.
So I have started executing of the code.
Then I've created two threads which is doing certain specific task.
And after that main main thread is again resuming it.
Okay.
Now what I have to do is first Java C main dot Java.
Now what will happen is the bytecode will get generated.
Bytecode will get generated.
Now second I am executing it via main.
Now when I'm executing it what will happen is process will be created.
One process will be created.
This this process will be created.
Now once the process is created what it will do is VM instance.
Is allocated JVM instance is allocated.
Right.
So it also allocated this JVM instance to a process, right?
And JVM instance will have heap memory let's say.
Defined by.
Here we have defined our x m x.
Let's say 1G1 gb I have allocated.
This one right.
So I have initiated the JVM instance.
And this has code segment data segment.
Right.
So currently it hasn't uh have the threads right now.
So now what it will do is.
This JVM will start doing interpreting or JIT compiling.
Uh just in time compiler will start converting the.
Bytecode to machine code.
And while it is converting this bytecode to machine code, it knows that hey I have thread one.
Thread 2 to Three threads are required.
Main thread.
Thread one.
Thread two.
So what it will do is it will create three threads.
Right.
And for each thread it will assign a stack register and counter.
So for each thread stack register and counter is will be assigned by the JVM scheduler.
So okay so it created three threads after while converting it to this uh machine code.
Right.
It get to know that okay I need three threads for this, uh, executing this main thread.
Then thread one, thread two.
Right.
And it will assign this machine code like from this machine code, it will create this three threads
and three threads will have this register stack counter.
Right now, whatever this machine code is generated, right?
It will save this machine code into code segment.
So this now code segment has the machine code which is generated.
So this will have the machine code which CPU understand this will have the complete machine code of
this.
Okay.
Now this counter will point to an address into this machine code.
Let's say this is a thread is for this one is main thread.
This thread two is let's say for t one and this thread is t two.
Okay.
So this let's say t one is executing this right.
So it's counter program counter is pointing to an address where in this machine code this getting started
Right.
Similarly, the threat to, let's say these are the coded threat to has to execute this program counter
has the address on the machine code, the code segment memory where the threat to has to start executing.
You got it.
So they have the the counter program counter has the address of the code segment where these threads
have to start working.
Okay.
So this is also done.
Now we have to start execution of this.
We have to start execution of this program right.
So who will run the program?
JVM doesn't run the program, right.
CPU has to execute this machine code.
So what will do?
Is this thread right?
So what happen is that this thread, this register, it uses this register.
So it is very similar to CPU register right.
So what will happen is let's say understand that you have only one CPU.
You have only one CPU, it has only one register, right?
It has its cache and Ram.
Let's say that you have only one CPU, one core, nothing.
There is nothing like a two core.
It's only one CPU.
Right now we have three threads.
Now what will happen is the three thread has to.
Now they have the machine code.
Now they have to run.
So what we'll do is let's say main thread start running it.
So what main thread will do is that it uses the register right.
It will store the data and it will assign it to the CPU.
right?
So CPU, what it will do is it will start executing this.
Main thread.
So who takes care of assigning this to CPU.
So the OS schedule.
Or you can say that manage this threads.
There are like sometime OS.
And there we also have JVM schedulers also.
So OS itself manage JVM scheduler.
So that's why we say that OS schedules these threads which need to be executed.
Right.
So all these threads which has the program counter like it is pointing to machine code, now they are
just waiting to get executed.
Now OS will schedule it.
That and what they will do is they will assign it to the CPU, right?
Hey CPU, run their code.
Now what CPU will do is that and from this program counter like it will load this machine code into
the memory.
So here in the register it can load and it will provide to the CPU.
CPU will now start executing its machine code.
Right.
And CPU can use this register to store the intermediate results and all so it can start executing this
right.
Now let's say that each thread OS has given a time of let's say okay, one second you can run.
After that, you have to wait, some other has, somebody else has to run.
So because there is only one CPU now let's say main thread was running right.
So it from this program counter it loads the machine instruction machine code has a sequence of instruction
so it load the instruction which this thread has to execute right into the register.
You can see that it's a kind of a virtual memory register.
Now OS will assign it to the CPU.
Here.
You execute it Read.
Now that instruction is read by the CPU and it will start executing it.
It will use its register to store the intermediate result and all.
But while it is processing it, let's say one second is completed.
Now what it will do is it will have to do context switching.
Context switching.
Very important.
So context switching means now what it will do is all the results which CPU has generated let's say
till 50% CPU has completed.
So whatever the 50% data CPU has completed in this register, it will get stored and OS will now use
run another thread.
Hey, now a main thread.
Whatever the CPU has run, you store in your register and you wait.
Now I am running thread one.
So now let's say thread one is running.
So now thread one is running, let's say after one second thread one also time completed.
Let's say thread one completed 70%.
So what it will do is all the intermediate data from the register and whatever the CPU is completed,
it will put into it's thread one register and it will do a context switch and it will now start thread
two.
Right.
So like this.
So when let's say thread one or main thread turn comes again.
Let's say thread one turn come again.
So what it will do is it will use its register, load it back again and start from that itself.
So thread one was completed let's say 70% right.
So all that 70% data is present into register.
So when it's turn again come it will put into the register back CPU and CPU start from where it left
right.
So that is known as context switching right.
So this is the term this is the scenario when there we have only one CPU.
Now let's say we have multiple CPU.
Let's say we have multiple CPU.
So when we have multiple CPU, it is that CPU.
This CPU one is running thread one, this CPU is running thread two, so they are actually running parallelly.
When we have multiple CPU cores, it is possible that two threads can run actual parallel.
If CPU cores are two and there are let's say 20 threads.
Thread one.
Thread two.
Thread three, thread four, thread 20.
So definitely we have to do context switching right?
It first run this then it run this.
Like so each will do context switching right.
So context switching means they are not actually running parallelly But it looks like they are run parallelly
like all are running simultaneously.
It looks like.
But internally CPU is doing context switching, right?
But let's say if you have two CPU core or let's say four core CPU core CPU, one CPU two, CPU three
CPU four, and let's say you have three threads thread one, thread two, thread three.
All thread one, thread two, thread three can run actual parallelly.
They are actually running parallelly.
No context switch is required in that case.
So you got it.
So.
This machine code how this code segment and this program counter are related.
Right.
You got right.
So each one is pointing.
Program counter is like where this thread has to start executing.
And it will keep on incrementing as soon as this instrument instruction is successfully completed by
the CPU.
Okay.
So program counter will keep on increasing the its counter.
Like whatever the code this thread has to execute.
Whatever the code, this thread has to execute this counter.
Keep on executing counting it the address.
It will point to the address where the next instruction has to be loaded from this machine code.
So here if you see that the code segment is same, all this three threads are just using this counter
address from this code segment which has the machine code.
And it just tells the CPU that hey, read this instruction and execute it.
So that's why they are actually doing things parallely right?
Sometimes if CPU is less, there are more threads.
Parallelly in the terms is context switching, it looks like they are working parallelly, but actually
it's not.
But sometime when the CPU cores are more thread is less, it actually runs parallel.
So this is clear totally how the process threads are actually run.
Right.
So code segment, data segment heap stack register counter should be super clear right?
I told you right.
Register helps in context switching how you got it.
Right.
Because uh, let's say if time time time up happen for the particular thread, OS will take all the
intermediate data from the CPU and put it into its register, and it has to wait next time when it will
have to come back, it will use its register, put it back to the CPU and start from there itself.
Now you have know about process and threads.
Now let's understand definition of multithreading.
So now can you explain it?
Multithreading is allow a program to perform multiple tasks at the same time.
multiple operation at the same time.
You can do right instead of task.
I would say that multiple operations at the same time itself.
Multiple threads share the same resource, such as memory space, but still can perform task independently,
right?
You got it right.
They do share a common resource like code segment.
They do share this data segment.
This is the memory.
They share heap memory.
They also share this right.
But they also have some independent memory which helps them to run individually.
What are the benefits and challenges of multithreading?
Benefit is improved performance by task parallelism.
So definitely by the task.
So let's say if you have two CPU.
Right.
So if you have thread one and thread one has to perform all the instructions sequentially, so only
one CPU will do so with parallelism you can do two threads.
Thread one, thread two.
You can divide the task some of the tasks to it and they can perform parallelly.
Right.
So it perform the performance by task parallelism.
Responsiveness.
Definitely.
It brings the response faster to the clients, right?
Performance is performance improve.
Definitely the output result or responsiveness of the application will get improved also.
Resource sharing this multi-threading.
They are utilizing the resource very well.
So here if you see they are doing resource sharing.
So they are utilizing the resource very well right.
So resource sharing also you can say that uh it's a benefit like it's not that much expensive because
they do share the resource.
So resource sharing is also a benefit that yes, multithreading allow you to share the resource between
multiple threads.
But there are few challenges.
First, challenges that concurrency issue like since they are accessing the same resource like heap
memory.
I told you data segment, there are global variables and all.
It is possible that deadlock data inconsistency can happen.
So we have to handle that and how to handle that through synchronization.
And that is an extra overhead.
We have to put lock synchronize block that is an extra overhead.
And sometime multithreading make our code difficult.
And testing and debugging is difficult right.
So I'm not sure in live have you faced this or not?
I have faced this because of this concurrency.
Sometime it's very difficult to debug it because there is no test case written as it is difficult to
test in local itself.
So these are the few challenges which I thought.
And before last there is some time confusion happen or interview.
Asked what difference between multitasking versus multithreading?
So here the answer lies here itself.
So process one.
Process two is multitasking.
This is task one.
This is task two right.
So this is known as multitasking.
And inside a particular task we can create multiple threads that is known as multithreading.
In the multithreading they share the resources in the multitasking they do not share the resources at
all right.
So here if you see that in the thread they is three threads.
Share this heap memory.
Share this code segment.
Share this data segment.
But this task multitask.
They never share any resource.
Code segment is also different.
Heap memory is also different.
All the resource are different, right?
That's the only difference.
So different process is known as you can say that different tasks right.
And inside a particular process we have multiple threads.
And when they are executing that's called multithreading.
And when the program execute multiple process like by context switching that is known as multitasking.
Okay.
Multitasking.
They do not share any resource.
But inside the multithreading threads do share the resource.
Okay guys.
So I think it should be clear this totally should be understand properly like how context switch happen,
how this JVM helps the processes.
Right.
So all these things should be clear.
And yeah next we will see the how to create a threads in Java.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Thread Creation, Thread Lifecycle & Inter-Thread Communication | Multithreading ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the multi-threading part two.
So here in this case today we will cover this this topic creations of thread and also synchronization
and Inter-thread communication.
So these two topics we will cover today right.
Okay let's just start without wasting any time.
So what are the different ways to create a thread.
So there are two ways to create a thread.
One is using an interface runnable interface and another is extending a thread class.
Right.
So here the first question at this point of time should come to your mind that hey, why we have two
different ways of creation of thread, right?
I will tell you now that why.
So one is through interface, another is through extending the class.
Why you remember.
Just remember that one scenario in Java, if you have class A, you can extend it from its parent class
and you can have only one extend.
You can have only one parent.
You cannot have multiple parent.
But if you have class A you can implement multiple interfaces.
Interface one.
Interface two.
Interface three.
Right.
So Java has provided us both the options that hey, if you have any class which you have already extended
from somewhere like, or you have already extended from parent class, but you wanted the thread capability
for this class.
Yes, you again can do by implementing a runnable interface, right?
Even though you have already extended because in Java you can only extend from one parent class, you
cannot have extend some parent one and also the thread class no two.
Extend we can't do so multi but interface you can have multiple right.
So Java has provided us both the ways.
So that's why we have two ways through interface and through extend.
Let's see that.
So this is the current class architecture we have here.
If you see that runnable.
So let's see the code here.
The runnable.
So runnable is a functional interface which has one abstract method run.
So here this is a functional interface which has this abstract method right.
But here if you see that this is not a thread this is not a part of thread.
This is just a normal functional interface.
Then this is the thread class.
The thread Threat class here if you see this.
This threat class is actually implements runnable.
So threat class is actually implements the runnable.
And it has all the methods which takes care of creation of thread, stopping of the thread, interruption
of the thread making thread sleep.
Everything right.
And it also implement this run method because this is an abstract and this is a concrete class.
So it has to implement this run method.
But this is actually a thread class which takes care of the total lifecycle of a thread.
Right.
Okay.
Now let's see that.
So but this is how currently exists.
And then we will see that how to create runnable interface and how to create a thread class directly
extending from a thread class.
Let's say that first implementing runnable interface.
So this is we already have this is we already have Java provide this such that we have one functional
interface.
And thread class implements this.
Now we want is that we want to create another class which which should have some tasks which need to
be performed by thread.
So what I've done is we can create one class here.
Which implements this runnable also.
Right.
This is class.
My class let's say implements the runnable.
And this run is the method which it has to provide the implementation.
So whatever you implement in here actually thread will invoke it.
Thread will invoke it.
How I will tell you but thread will ultimately invoke this method.
Run.
How?
I will tell you.
But remember that this is not a thread again.
This is not a thread.
This is the thread class.
This is a thread class.
This is just a normal class which implements the runnable interface and provide the implementation of
this run method.
Right now the thread will invoke this run method.
We will see.
So step one is create runnable object like this.
Create a class.
So create a class that implements the runnable interface.
So here I have created a class multithreading learning implements runnable.
So here I have taken my class right.
So now let's say if I am creating one class.
Multithreading learning right.
And implements this runnable and provided an implementation of this run method.
So run method.
I have provided this implementation.
For example, I have just say that System.out.println.
Code executed by thread.
The thread name right now what is the uh, yeah, implement the run method.
So I have already implemented the run method here.
So this first part is done I have created this.
Now how to invoke a thread to call this run method.
Step two create an instance of the class that implements runnable.
So first we have to create an object of this class which we have created multithreading learning.
Right?
So here I am creating the object of this multithreading running runnable object.
This I have provided an object.
Then what I have done is pass the runnable object to the thread constructor.
I am now creating the thread.
So this is where thread is created.
18.
I told you that thread is the class which actually creates the thread.
So I am.
So this constructor thread constructor will actually construct the thread.
And here in that I pass this runnable object.
So here if you see that this is the thread class.
So this should have one constructor which pass.
So which takes the runnable object.
So here takes the runnable object.
Because thread is also a child of runnable it also has implemented the run method.
So now let's see how it will help.
So what I have done is here thread creation is done.
Thread is constructed and it knows that okay this is the runnable object which is passed to me.
What is runnable object.
Multithreaded learning.
So this multithreaded learning object is passed to this thread.
Now we have to start the thread.
So at this point of time, only thread is created, not started.
Now we have to start the thread.
So we have.
We are now starting the thread thread dot start method.
And when we invoke the start method internally it calls the run method.
Right.
So we are calling this start method on what object thread right this thread.
So this start internally calls run.
So which method it will invoke run of thread only.
So it will invoke this inside this thread.
This run method will get invoked.
So we'll see that run.
So this run method will get invoked.
Now see this.
What this run method is doing.
This run method is doing if target not equals to null invoke the target dot run.
Now you can you guess what is this?
Target is right.
So here if you see that.
When we created the thread, what runnable object we pass.
Okay, this is the multi-threaded running runnable object we pass.
So here if you see that target is nothing but runnable object.
So whenever we constructed a thread, whenever we constructed a thread and we have passed the runnable
object to it, this runnable target is will be set as not equals to null, and the reference will be
set to this one.
Whatever we will pass to it, right and inside the run method.
Inside the run method.
If it is not equal to null, it will call target dot run.
So ultimately this runnable object dot run will get invoked.
So ultimately this will get invoked by this thread.
You got it.
So this when we say that this is the method which actually invoked by thread.
How?
So we first create a thread and we pass this runnable object to it.
And in the run method we will see that hey if runnable is not equals to null then invoke the runnable
dot run.
So whatever the object.
So let's say if you have 1010 runnable objects write runnable one, runnable two, runnable three.
So while creation of the thread constructor, if you have passed runnable three reference, then inside
a run when it calls when it invokes the run method of this runnable.
So this will get invoked right?
So here if you see this is how with the interface the thread can be constructed.
So here when if you see this example.
Now what I have done is where if you run this what how it will run.
Let's little bit clean this up so that we can see its execution also.
So now when you executed this main method.
So first by default what what thread will constructed is main right.
Main thread with the name main.
So going inside main method what is the thread main.
Then what I'm doing is I'm creating a runnable object.
Pass it to the thread right and starting the thread right.
Then I started the thread and this main.
So here it will create some new thread and.
But the main is continue.
So finish main method main is finished.
But one new thread has been created.
Have I started it?
And when I call the start method internally will call run and inside the run.
We have checked that if runnable object is present, it will call the run method of that.
So it will call this run object code executed by thread.
Thread name.
Code executed by thread.
Thread name.
Some new thread has been created and that executed this run method.
So you got it.
How to create an object.
Create a thread using runnable interface.
And if you see that this provide a lot of capability that in this runnable interface this is one thread
class.
Now we can have you can have any number of classes let's say class one, class two, class three.
And this class can even child of some other class let's say this is implements.
This is implement.
This is implement but this class extend from this, right?
So here, if you see that what I'm trying to say, that these are not threat classes.
They can do lot of other tasks, but yet they can use the we can invoke the thread on this method because
inside this thread we are passing this runnable object, whatever the runnable object we are constructing
while creating a thread, we pass it and that it will invoke the run on that one, right?
So these classes are not thread.
They can do lot of other task.
They can implement some other interface.
Also they can extend one another class.
They have some other method also.
So they can do lot of stuffs.
Yet taking the capability of threading we can invoke thread on this method okay.
So in mostly live and on production.
You can say that in company standard.
Generally this method is used, but it's good practice to know the another second approach of creating
a thread using extending.
So this is we already have.
So we have a functional interface.
And this is the thread class.
Now we are extending from this thread class.
So now this is also a thread class.
This is a thread.
This is you can say that the subclass subclass or you can say that thread subclass.
So but this is also considered as a thread right.
Because it is directly extending from the thread.
So whatever the thread has the capability, this class also has the same capability.
So it because it is extending from it now it cannot extend from any other class Right now let's see
how to create.
So first create a class that extend the this one and override the run method to tell the task which
thread has to do so I am creating one class multithreading learning.
So I am creating one class.
Let's say multithreading learning.
Extend the thread.
So extend the thread and provided the run method what I have to execute in it.
Second, we have to create an instance right?
So here now if you see that how to create it.
So I have created now this object of this new class which I have created, I have to create an object
of this class.
So what the name of my class, what is the name I have given multithreading learning.
So this is like multithreading learning multithreading learning.
So now we have to create an object of this class.
So we have created an object of this class.
Now you see that I don't need to create a thread object now, because why?
This is also thread only.
This is a direct child of thread.
It has all the capabilities which are already present into the parent.
This myclass has all the capabilities which are present into the thread, right?
So you don't have to create a thread class and pass this object to it.
No necessary because this is itself is a thread class, right?
So here what I have done is I have created the object of this new class, which is a child of thread.
Now, since it's a child of thread, it has all this method supported, so I can even so this all methods
have been can be accessed from the child class.
So I can call the start method directly from here.
So I can call start method.
So now when this start method is called.
Now when I start method is called internally.
It will call run method now.
So I on which object I have called the run method.
This multithreading learning.
This one multithreading learning.
So which run it will invoke this one.
The overriding one right.
If you don't provide this overriding one right, it will go to its parent and call its run method.
So here if you see generally in the parent thread class, in the thread class, run only for runnable,
we are invoking it.
But rest we are doing nothing.
So here it also says that if the thread was constructing using a runnable, then runnable object run
method is called.
Otherwise this method does nothing in return.
So that's why generally we do override.
So that's why whenever you create a child thread directly extending, We have to generally override
it because in the parent thread run class it will perform nothing.
Right.
So we have to provide what whatever the new thread you are constructing, what it has to do.
But actually you got it right.
We can create a child class, whatever the child class you have created for the thread and directly
call the start method.
It will internally call the run method and this will invoke this.
So now let's see.
So going inside the main method when you run this.
So it will print thread dot current thread get name main.
So it created a thread here.
So thread creation has been done but it's not yet started.
At this point it is started and finish.
Main method.
The main thread has been completed but the new thread is yet to work.
So it will call run method and it will call multithreading learning run method code executed by a thread.
Some new thread.
Right?
Exact same functionality.
So you got it right.
What are the two different ways of thread creation?
Why?
There are two different ways.
Right.
And in industry mostly, which one is preferred because it provides lot of capability?
A class can have lot of composition, right.
You can implement so many interface.
You can have even extend from other class also.
So that's why this is generally approach is not used in the industry standard.
But the two ways is created right.
Why.
We have two ways to create thread.
Very important interview question I think now you should get it.
I have explained this part since now we know that.
How to create a thread.
Now let's understand the thread lifecycle.
Let's see this diagram well.
Okay so whenever we created the thread thread object equals to new thread whenever we did this at that
time a thread is created.
Whenever we created, a thread is created and it is a new state.
You can say that thread is created, but it is not yet started.
When you call that thread dot start.
When you call thread dot start, it goes into the runnable state.
So it goes into runnable state.
So this is your runnable state right.
So here if you see that in the runnable state right runnable state I have provided this to, one is
runnable and another is running.
So generally if you see that there is this running is not a state.
Only everywhere.
You will see.
You will see runnable only run.
Running is not a state.
This two are taken as a together.
So what happens is they keep on switching between it.
So runnable means that it is waiting for the CPU time.
As soon as CPU will give it a time, it will move to the running state.
As soon as context switching happened, it will again go back into the queue and wait for the CPU time.
It goes into runnable.
So it keeps on based on the context switching.
It keeps on into runnable or running.
But generally we call that runnable state means they are running right?
But runnable running is like runnable is waiting for CPU.
Running is got the CPU time.
But generally you can say that they are in runnable state when we say that runnable state.
So whenever you call start it goes into runnable state right.
Difference between runnable running I told you waiting for the CPU.
Got CPU, but generally this this rectangle, which I have shown it's considered as one runnable itself.
Running is generally a you can say that part of it.
So yeah.
So when you call this thing it goes into runnable state and when it's completed it task, it will finish
its execution.
And this thread get finished terminated.
Once the thread is terminated, there is no way it will go back to the runnable.
It's terminated.
So this is one flow from new.
It goes to runnable and from runnable it finishes execution and get terminated.
But while it is in runnable runnable it is possible that it can goes into a block state.
So let's say there is certain IO task like input output operation task.
So let's say this Like reading from a file or database.
So now let's say you want to, while you are performing the thread work, it has to read some data from
a DB.
It's an IO task, right?
So that time it is waiting thread is waiting to get the data from the DB.
So what it from the CPU?
It is now in a blocked state.
This thread is in blocked state, right?
Once the IO operation task is done, it goes back to a runnable state, right?
It goes back to runnable state.
Also, one more is whenever a thread want to acquire a lock on a particular resource, and let's say
some, that resource is already locked by some other thread.
Then also it has to wait, right.
So it might goes into blocked state.
And once it get the lock on that particular resource it come back into the runnable state.
Right?
And as soon as CPU will get the time, it will start running.
Another is waiting.
So we can explicitly call the wait method and make the thread wait.
Or you can say that make the thread block.
So this is like internally while running it, wait for some operation to perform like DB read acquire
lock.
And this is like we call the wait method explicitly and make it to a wait state and it will be in wait
state continuously until we don't call the notify method.
Notify means hey, come back into runnable state.
But if you if you don't invoke the notify method, it will.
This thread will keep waiting.
Okay, that's the difference between blocked and waiting.
Another is thread time waiting.
Like sleep method inside a sleep you can give a time.
Hey for ten second.
Go and wait as soon as that ten second finish.
Automatically it will goes to a runnable state back.
Okay, so that's what is known as timed waiting.
So after a particular time, automatically it goes to runnable state.
And only for that time it will.
It is waiting now at all this point we can stop the thread and we can terminate it.
So it can be terminated right at at any point of time, even the thread is just created.
We can stop it.
Right?
So you got it right.
The life cycle of a thread so we can create it.
It goes to runnable state from runnable.
It can either goes into blocked state.
Maybe it requires some DB operation acquire log.
It has to wait.
And after once it got that it resumed the processing goes into the runnable state.
Or we explicitly, uh, make the thread wait and it goes into runnable only when we call this method.
And there is something called time waiting, like sleep, uh, for some time, or it is waiting for
some other thread to complete.
Right?
And once the other thread will complete, it will then goes back to the runnable state.
Okay, so we will go this check this method in uh.
With an implementation we will get more clarity.
But this is generally the thread lifecycle.
These are the different states.
So first state is new thread has been created but not yet started.
It is just an object in memory.
Second is runnable thread is ready to run waiting for the CPU.
Time running is when thread start executing its code.
See it got the CPU time and this is generally a one state only runnable Identified with the name runnable.
Blocked block means whenever thread goes into the blocking state like io read.
Reading from a file database or lock acquired it.
And if thread wants to lock on a resource which is locked by other thread, it has to wait.
Now one thing you will see that something called monitor locks.
Whenever the thread goes into the blocked state, it releases all the monitor lock.
Keep that in your mind for the time being.
I will come to this monitor lock very soon.
But remember that whenever the thread is blocked, it releases all the monitor locks.
Waiting thread goes into this state when we call the wait method and its make it non runnable.
It goes back to runnable when we call notify or notify all method.
And also it releases all the monitor log at this state.
Also it releases all the monitor log time waiting thread, wait for a specific period of time and come
back to renewable state after specific condition like sleep.
It do not release any monitor log during time waiting it do not release any monitor log.
Write terminated life of a thread is completed.
It cannot be started back again, right?
So these are the states of thread.
And one thing which is pending is what is monitor log like this.
Release the monitor lock.
This also released the monitor lock.
This do not release any monitor lock.
And at this point of time when it is runnable it Put the monitor lock actually.
So now let's before I tell you an example right of this all this method wait sleep run the start.
Let's first understand the monitor lock okay.
What does monitor lock will do.
It helps to make sure that only one thread goes inside a particular section of code.
Generally you can say that a synchronized block or method.
So you know right.
Whenever we have put synchronized on a method let's say this is my method void, uh, let's say uh let's
say synchronize, I have put and this is my method method.
So we know that if multiple threads are coming to this thread one.
Thread two.
Only one thread will go at a time.
How?
Because this synchronize will put a lock.
So where on which it is putting a lock.
So whichever is calling this method.
So let's say this is class A and this method is present inside class A.
Now if other class is first creating an object of class A, class a object equals to new class A.
Now this object dot this method one.
Let's say method one.
Now it is calling this method.
So let's say this is thread one.
This is calling this method.
Then also thread two.
It is using the same object.
It is using the same object and calling this method one.
Like remember both the thread is using the same resource.
Source.
Both the thread is using the same resource, so thread one and thread two, both using this same object
and calling the method one.
Now two threads are coming to operate on this method.
Now this method is synchronized.
Now what this synchronize will do.
It will put a monitor lock on this object right.
It will put a monitor lock on this object.
So only one will get a lock and it will perform a task.
Now other will wait to acquire that monitor lock.
Now one will finish this synchronized block or method.
That monitor lock will be released.
And now other will get and perform the task right.
If they both this thread one and thread two works on different object.
So now it is creating different object.
Object two this object one.
This object two.
New class A.
Now it is calling object to dot method one.
So now here, if you see that method one is invoking with object one of this class, and thread two
is invoking with the object two different object of this class.
Now monitor so they can both go inside because.
So each object has the monitor lock right.
So during synchronize thread one it will put monitor lock on object one.
Right.
And no other thread can get monitor lock on object one while thi one has already logged it.
But T2 is working on object two, so it has its own monitor lock, so it will when T2 goes inside,
it will put this monitor lock.
So you got it.
Each object has monitor lock.
Now let's see an example.
We will see an example and see that let's first see these screenshots, then we will implement it also.
So I have created one class monitor loc example here.
Task one is one method which is synchronized.
Right.
This is synchronized method.
It is doing nothing.
It just inside task one.
And I'm making it sleep for ten second.
Right thread dot sleep I kept it.
Whatever the thread is going inside, I kept it sleep for ten second.
Now I have another method.
Task two.
But here if you see that I haven't put synchronize on the method level, I have used a block.
So first I have print before synchronized and then I am putting a block synchronized block and use this.
I'll tell you how why this inside synchronized.
And in the task three there is no synchronized neither block Neither this method.
So three.
Simple method.
Task one.
Task two.
Task three.
They are just printing.
System.out.println.
Now here.
If you see that I am creating one main method.
I am creating this object.
So I have created one object.
Now see that I am creating three threads all working on the same object.
Same object, right?
I told you that every object has monitor lock, right?
So now I have created only one object.
Now all three threads has to work on this object.
So I am creating.
So I told you that how to create a thread.
So I am using this lambda expression.
I told you right in start this runnable is in functional interface.
It has one abstract method.
So you know that for the functional interface we can create a lambda expression.
So either you have to write this class implements runnable and provide this run and provide this.
Or I can even directly, uh, do like this new thread, new thread, and use the lambda expression here
itself and provide the implementation this part right.
I hope you have understood the functional interface lambda expression well.
So I think this would be easy to understand.
So I'm creating let's say thread one new thread and I am passing the runnable.
Runnable is a functional interface and it has only one method run which do not accept any parameter
right.
So I passed it right.
And I am telling that hey, whatever the run method it will invoke.
It will have to this perform this task in the run method.
So it would be equivalent to run and inside run it has to do object one dot task one.
So object this is the object.
It has to do call the task one.
So it has put call the task one.
Thread two is creating a new thread and it invoking the same object.
But task two it is invoking this task two.
So thread two need to invoke this thread one need to invoke this.
And I have created a thread three new thread and its run method will do this.
Invoke the task three.
So this is the thread three.
It will invoke the task three and I have started the thread.
So this is thread creation.
Now I have to start it.
So when I started thread one dot start so thread one will start will invoke its run method.
So ultimately this runnable run method will call it will call object dot task one.
So object object this object task one.
So this is synchronized.
What it will do is on this object it will put a lock monitor lock by thread one monitor lock by thread
one on this object obj.
Okay.
Now thread two dot start and it goes inside task one.
And it.
Now it is waiting right?
It is not yet completed if I explicitly put the time second that okay, it takes some time to complete
this.
Now thread two dot start.
So thread two will ultimately call This task two.
Now, inside this task two, it goes.
It will print task two.
But before synchronize, it will print it.
Now it also want a lock.
And I have put this.
So this is like this object which on which I have invoked this task two.
So it's the same object.
The same object.
It now it want a monitor lock which is already acquired by thread one.
So now it will wait.
Thread two will wait.
So now you understand what I'm trying to say.
That monitor lock will help you to make sure that only one thread will go inside a critical section.
No matter if it is a different method itself, each object has monitor lock.
If somebody has put a lock on it, right.
And if another thread want a lock, put a monitor lock that has to be released by the previous thread.
No matter which.
So during synchronize it, try to put a monitor lock.
So now at this point it want to put a monitor lock on this.
This is the object reference.
It is the same and it is put by thread one.
So it will wait.
Thread two will wait to complete it.
So thread three dot start.
So it will invoke task three.
So it will go inside.
This here is no synchronize.
No need to put any lock so it will print it.
Now after 10s thread one will complete its task and then it will release its lock.
Then it will go inside and print it inside synchronize and then it will complete.
Okay.
So here let's see the implementation part.
Let me show you.
So this is the monitor lock example right.
This is the monitor lock example.
So here I have task one inside task one.
I make the thread sleep for ten.
Second.
Task one completed task two before synchronize.
I am putting a lock here inside synchronize and completed task three.
No.
Synchronize.
Uh, monitor lock.
Main method.
So here what I am doing is I am creating one thread, right?
I am creating one thread and I'm passing.
So here you got it right.
Either you can do this.
So let me show you what is if I don't use lambda what should be the way?
So let's say I am creating uh, monitor thread one.
Right.
I have to implement runnable.
Right.
And if I implemented it, I have to Implements its run method.
Right.
And so here object one this object it has to work on.
Right.
So in the thread one I have to have this object monitor example object right.
And have let's say monitor thread one constructor.
And I will use this constructor to set this object.
This dot obj equals to obj.
So I will set this.
And inside the run method what I am doing object dot task one.
So calling the object dot task one right?
Either one way is that I have created this class like this or using Lambda.
I can directly do like this.
So for thread two and thread three let me do lambda one and thread one.
Let me first create a Monitor thread one.
Or instead of this monitor thread one.
Let me say that it is a runnable class monitor thread one runnable.
It will clarify, right?
It's a runnable class or runnable obj equals to new runnable and pass this object so that they all work
on the same object.
And instead of this now lambda I will pass this runnable object okay.
So either way is that I do this.
For this I need to create this class or another with the lambda.
Short form is like directly do this.
The lambda will take care of doing that.
I think you already know.
So yeah I have created one thread.
One thread one will work on this task one and inside the task one.
I have put this one.
So now let's see the.
Now let's run it.
So here, inside task one.
Task three is completed.
Task two before synchronize.
But see, not yet finished.
It is waiting for thread one to complete.
Task one to complete.
Task one completed after 10s.
Then task two goes inside.
You got it right.
What happened here?
Right?
Because.
Thread one.
When it goes.
When it start.
Thread one, thread one.
Call the task one.
This synchronize.
Put a monitor lock on which object?
This object.
Right.
It put a monitor lock on this object and it goes inside.
Task one.
It put inside task one and it goes into the sleep.
Now it is sleeping right now.
Thread two start working.
So it calls the task to task two, but before synchronized it, print that.
Now it also wanted a lock on this object.
So what is the object?
This and they both are thread one and thread two.
Both are working on the same object and thread one already has the monitor lock.
So it has to wait.
It has to wait.
So thread two didn't get the lock.
So this task two inside a synchronize.
It didn't print it right.
So it is waiting.
Now thread is thread three starts.
So thread three printed task three.
So it is done completed.
Now after ten second thread one completed his task it the task one completed.
It goes out of the synchronized block.
Monitor lock is released on this object on this object and then thread two got the lock now and work.
Okay.
So what I, I think monitor lock should be very clear.
It helps to make sure that only one thread goes inside a particular section of a code synchronized block.
No matter different method or not, every object has monitor lock, right?
So it is.
If you are putting a lock on a same object.
Then only it makes sense, right?
If two threads are working on a shared resource, right?
Then only it makes sense.
But if you have different object object one, object two.
Right?
Then it is not a shared resource.
Why I am telling you monitor lock this because that is very important when we will see the real example
now.
Now let's see that if you understand the monitor lock Interlock properly.
Now let's see this.
Whatever the methods we have encountered.
Write.
Start.
Run.
Let's see that now.
See?
It's example.
Okay.
Let's first see this screenshot.
Let's first understand what I am doing it.
Then we will code it.
Also it will get super clear.
So what I am doing here is.
I am first creating a shared resource class.
Shared resource class.
So what the shared resource is, is it has a boolean item available right item available is currently
false.
Item is not available.
It has two method add item consume item.
Whenever the add item is method is called item available is marked as true and it calls a notify all.
I'll tell you what is the usage of notify all consume method.
Whenever consume is method is called it make item available false right?
It makes a item available false.
And if item is not available, it has to wait.
I'll tell you how it is working.
So just understand that shared resource has something item available.
It has two method add item consume item add item makes item available.
True consume item makes item available false.
Now I have to create two two tasks.
Produce task implements runnable and consume tasks implements also runnable I can I don't need to create
this class.
I can directly do it through uh lambda, but for better clarity, let's add it.
Okay, so produce task.
So what I am doing is produce task is working on the shared resource.
So during its constructor produced us, this shared resource will get set.
Now inside this run method what this producer producer thread has to do.
Because some thread has to invoke this method, right?
Some thread will invoke.
So I'm just printing which thread is this thread name producer thread.
Now I'm waiting it, now I am waiting it like thread dot sleep.
I'm making it.
Wait, I'll tell you why.
So after five seconds it will go and add an item.
That's the produced task is doing.
So what I'm doing is I am making the thread to sleep for five seconds and then I'm adding it.
Consume task.
What it is doing is it is using the shared resource.
Whatever the reference, I will pass it will set it and inside its run method I'm just printing what
is the name of the consumer thread and directly.
No waiting it, just try to consume it.
Now this is the main method.
So here System.out.println.
Main method start.
Okay I have created one shared resource.
I have created one shared resource object.
Right now I have created one producer thread new thread and pass the runnable object.
New produce task.
Runnable object and this runnable object produce task.
I have assigned this shared resource object to produce task.
Now I created the consumer thread and in the consumer thread.
Also I pass this consumer task runnable class object and also the same object reference I pass.
So now the both producer and consumer working on the same same shared resource same object.
So at this point of time your thread is in new state thread is created but not started, right?
And I told you right?
I don't need to create this class.
Also, I can directly do it using lambda.
So for consumer thread I can do new thread right?
And whatever I am doing here consumer thread and consume task I can do like this.
Also no need of creating this class, but I'm just saying it's an alternative.
You can even write it for more clarity.
Just.
But I can do like this way also or.
But now let's say now your thread is in new state.
I have created two threads producer thread, consumer thread, producer thread is this runnable task.
I have provided consumer thread, this runnable task I have provided and this.
They are working on the same resource and they are invoking the on the same resource.
They are working on it.
Something there it is a risk per produce task is adding the item.
Consumer task is consuming the item.
Now I am starting the thread so now it is in runnable state.
Your thread is in runnable state now.
Producer thread dot start.
Consumer thread dot start.
Now let's say both the thread started.
So when the thread is started it will call the run method internally.
So for producer thread what is runnable object produce task.
So it will invoke its run method.
So what.
It will print it.
It will print producer thread some thread name.
Now it is waiting.
So producer thread is waiting now.
It's not doing anything.
So it is waiting here.
Sleeping.
It is sleeping.
Let's say currently it is sleeping while consumer thread is also initiated.
So it will call its run method.
Consumer thread is working on this runnable consumer task.
So it will call its run consumer thread invoked.
What is the thread name and it try to consume on this shared resource consume task.
While it is sleeping it calls the consume task.
So shared resource this class consume item.
Now it is trying to call this consume item.
So this is synchronize.
So means on this object shared resource object right.
There is a monitor lock.
Now by what by consumer thread right.
It put a monitor lock by consumer thread.
So consumer consume item method invoke are just printing like now it check.
Hey item available by default item is false.
Item is not available.
So when item is not available, what I did is I make it wait.
I explicitly call the wait method.
I told you whenever it call a wait method now thread will go into non runnable state, right?
And it releases all the monitor lock.
So now when it is waiting it will release this monitor lock also.
So there is no lock now and it is waiting right now.
Somebody has to invoke the notify to make it again.
Goes into runnable state.
Now it is waiting okay.
So now let's say five second is completed for the producer task.
And now it invokes from sleeping.
It's a timed waiting.
So it's a timed waiting state.
So now it is completed five second it proceed further and it add the item.
So it goes into the add item.
It is a synchronized.
So it is the same object.
Now it will put a monitor lock by produce task.
It will put a monitor lock on this object.
Now it will make this item available.
True item is now available.
And now it will call notify all.
Hey all the threads which are waiting for this object which are waiting on this object you guys invoke.
So here this thread is waiting right?
The consumer thread was waiting right on this object.
Same object.
So this this will get now because of this notify this.
Get back to the runnable state.
Right.
And it completed its task.
So this monitor lock is also released by producer.
This produce.
so.
And it completed its task.
Now this from this weight the consumer the consumer task against.
Check the item available.
Yes.
Now item available because producer has added the item.
True.
Now it not wait.
It goes out of this and it will print item consumer.
And now it will make it false.
And it goes out right.
And it will release its lock now and it goes out okay.
So this is the implementation right.
And here we can check it.
So we can even write this if you want.
But here you can see that this is the shared resource.
This is the shared resource item available currently.
It is false in add item which is a synchronized.
It is making it true and notify like whoever is waiting on this object will wake up.
Consume item.
It is also synchronized and item is not available when item is not available, right?
It is.
Keep the thread into wait state.
Otherwise, as soon as it is available somebody call the notify.
It will go and consume it.
Now here, if you ask that hey why we have while loop.
Why can't we have if condition here.
If condition is also true.
But if you read the Oracle documentation right.
They tell that sometimes superiors wakeup can happen a thread which is waiting sometime because of some,
uh, system noise or something.
They got wake up even though somebody has invoked notify, they got wake up.
So it's always good to check again that.
Hey, whatever you are waiting for, is it fulfilled or not?
Then start the working.
Okay, so that's why it is better to check on while loop.
That's why it is known as superior wakeup to avoid the like superior wakeup.
That's why I checked on while loop.
And if it is available, it goes out and it make item available.
False, right.
So producer task let's implement this.
Right.
Let's implement this okay.
Let's code it.
So let me first delete everything.
Delete.
Okay.
Now let's do this with.
So I am uh building one shared resource class.
So this shared resource class I am putting is item present.
Currently it is false.
Falls, right?
And I am putting one method add item and whenever the add item is called is, I am making it true and
I am making one like consume item.
And whenever this is consumed I am making is item present equals to false again, right?
So this is the basic shared resource right.
And also I want to create the threads I will add synchronize and all.
But first let me add a main class.
So inside the main class.
So I am not creating those runnable interface I am using the lambda, so I am creating thread.
Uh, so let's say I will give it a producer thread.
Producer thread.
New thread.
I am using a lambda expression to implement the run method, and in the producer thread what producer
thread has to do.
First I have to create an object of this shared resource.
Shared resource object equals to new shared resource.
Okay, so producer thread has to invoke the add item on this right?
It has to invoke the add item on it and uh consume thread.
Creating a new thread.
It has to do consume item on it.
But now we have to two since both the threads are working on a same shared resource.
We have to use synchronization to avoid the conflict.
So I am also synchronizing this.
So this synchronize will put a lock like on whichever object they invoke.
So now let's say if somebody is trying to consume it right.
So it will check if is item present false.
If it is false it become true.
Then I have that thread has to wait right.
So I have to put into a try catch block.
Some exception handling goes here.
And instead of this if let me do while loop to avoid.
But at least in testing, I can use if.
But you know right why we keep while loop to avoid any spurious wakeup somebody if else can wake up
but generally if is okay for that okay so if item is not present it will wait.
Else it will is present okay.
So that is done and I will put some log logs.
Also let system dot out dot println.
Thread.
Let's say consumer thread inside consume item method.
Right.
It is inside this.
And let's say I will put it here like consumer thread Is waiting.
So now it will wait.
Okay.
And here in the synchronize it will put the item.
And it will notify all the threads which are waiting on this object.
Right.
So it let me put this like.
Producer thread.
Calling the notify method.
Right.
So it will call the notify method.
So whatever the threads which are waiting on this wait they will get invoked.
So in the main method I can start this producer thread dot start and consumer thread dot start.
Now since they are threads right they can work parallelly if consumer thread Like initiated first.
So what it will do is it is false like or if it is a consumer thread invokes first it's fine, it is
false, it becomes true and it goes inside and wait.
But if producer thread is started, the first it goes and it will add it, and consumer thread will
got the item and it will goes out.
It will not wait.
So to make sure that consumer goes first let's make producer thread wait for some time.
So producer thread let's keep it thread dot sleep for two seconds.
So we have to put trycatch exception handling.
Exception handling here okay so now in the producer thread, it will.
Whenever producer thread will start, it will wait for some time and this two second will make sure
that consumer thread will go first.
So consumer thread when it start it will try to consume item would not be present.
So it will go and wait.
And after two seconds producer will come and it will add an item and it will invoke it.
So after that the consumer item will go on.
Right.
So now and you already know the how the monitor lock is working.
Right.
Since they are working both on the same object.
So consumer thread will put a lock first item is not present.
It will goes into wait.
And when it wait it will release all the monitor lock here.
And since it release all monitor lock when the producer will come, it will, it will able to get the
lock and it will go inside.
And when it call, notify all and it goes out, it will release its lock.
And now it will goes again.
Consumer will goes into runnable and it will take the lock again.
So now let's run it.
Consumer thread inside consumer item method.
Consumer thread is waiting producer thread calling the notify method.
So producer thread calling the notify method.
And what it will do is it will goes out of this block.
So let us put that consumer thread consume the item so that we got to know that it got invoked.
So let's and make it three seconds.
Run.
Consumer threat insight consumer method.
It is waiting producer threat calling the notify method.
Consumer threat consume the item.
So you got it right.
How the threads are working and how we have seen the sleep.
We have seen are this wait notify right.
So you know that how it can goes into the time wait expect uh time waiting state during sleep in the
waiting like wait notify right.
Similarly, whenever DB operation will comes, it will goes automatically into the blocked state.
So.
And how it goes into the start runnable state.
So it's very easy.
But now there is one assignment for you guys.
You have to implement the producer consumer problem.
It is very important question.
Shun.
So this is the question two thread A producer and a consumer share a common fixed size buffer as a queue.
So there is a queue.
Both producer is using the same object.
Consumer is consuming from this queue.
The producer job is to generate the data and put it into the buffer.
Consumer job is to consume the data from the buffer.
So producer will put some data.
So it puts some data and consumer will consume it.
So it will, uh free this item, free this consume it.
Once it is consumed it will remove from the queue.
Remove from the queue.
The problem is to make sure that the producer won't produce data if the buffer is full.
If the buffer is full, let's say it has producer has produced all, then it should wait, then it should
wait.
It should not put more item and the consumer won't consume the data if buffer is empty.
If the buffer is empty, there is no data to consume.
Consumer should wait.
It should not consume it.
So you have to.
It is very similar to what we have done.
But now instead it is they have to work on a queue and they have to do this.
So can you try to implement this?
Producer consumer problem.
Right.
So in the next session.
Right.
So what we will do is I will provide you the solution.
We will discuss the solution.
I will also implement the same.
But I want like first you implement it.
You can share me uh in the comment section your code or you can ping me right.
So let's have the solution.
I will also build my solution and share.
And then also we will see that there is one stop resume.
Suspended method is deprecated in the thread.
We need to understand why and if we don't.
If this is deprecated, how to do that right?
So here in this thread, if you see that when we say that.
This stop method.
This stop method this is deprecated.
This is deprecated method.
If this is deprecated method stop then how to stop.
How to terminate the thread.
We will see that.
Okay so yeah that's all for today.
And please work on this problem before I discuss it.
Because in the next session when I will tell you the solution.
Right.
If you have done it, you will be able to sync up with me better, right?
Otherwise you will have lot of doubt.
So please spend some time on building this solution.
Okay, guys.
See you.
Bye.

--- Thread Joining, Daemon Thread, Thread Priority | Multithreading in Java ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are we are trying to do is we will complete this part three of multithreading where I would
be covering the solution for producer consumer problem.
Why stop resume suspended method is deprecated.
Very important.
We need to understand why.
What is thread joining thread priority and the daemon thread.
Right.
So some very important topics.
So we will cover all in today's uh video.
So without wasting time let's start and implement producer consumer problem.
In the previous last video I have asked like can you try this implementing it because the similar type
of uh, question I have shown as an example.
So here what the problem says that we have two thread producer and consumer both wanted to access a
shared resource which is nothing but a queue.
Producer produces an item into the queue.
Consumer consumes an item from the queue.
All we have to do is that if the queue is full.
If the queue is full, then producer has to wait.
And if queue is empty, then consumer has to wait because there is nothing to consume.
Right.
And if it is full, there is no space to add more item.
Okay, so this is the question and I have already explained you how wait notify and your monitor lock
how this three works right.
They are specifically to a particular object right.
So I will just tell you this solution right.
And hope it should be pretty clear with the previous example itself, but still you have any doubt,
let me know.
So here what I have done is I have created one shared resource, right?
Shared resource.
I have put a Q and a buffer size like what is the size of this Q you want it to be.
So this is the simple constructor which I use this Q defined as a linked list.
Right.
So generally linked list is your unbounded right.
It is unbounded collection means there is no size.
So I'm maintaining the size using this buffer size.
So I will keep on tracking.
What is the size of this Q.
And if the size of the q is reached to this buffer size which I'm providing means it is full.
Okay.
So this is my shared Q now here in this I have written one produce method and what it is producing this
item.
So but before producing first it checks that if buffer is full wait for the consumer to consume item.
So now I'm checking buffer is full.
So this queue size is equals to equals to whatever we have provided initially.
So if the size is reached to the max capacity means buffer is full.
It has to wait.
Right.
Otherwise if there is an item in this queue add an item.
Right.
And as soon as you add an item, if any consumer is waiting, we have to call notify.
You know that how notify will work.
Know if any thread which is waiting on this object particular object right.
It will invoke it.
Similarly I have created one consume.
This is also a synchronized similar to produce.
So before consuming it will first check if the queue is empty.
You have to wait.
Consumer has to wait right.
Otherwise it will take one item from the queue.
It will pull it up, and when it pull it up, there will be some space, uh, become free.
Right.
So it there might be a chance that some producer thread is waiting.
So it will call notify.
If any producer thread is waiting, it will invoke it up.
Right.
So this is the produce and consume message or shared resource I have put now here.
If you see that in the main class I have created one thread produce thread producer thread.
Right.
So how I am creating is using this lambda expression.
So I am creating uh thread using runnable interface.
Right.
So runnable interface is a functional interface.
So I am passing it through lambda expression.
So I'm creating one producer thread.
And what I am trying to do here is for it is producing it.
It is calling.
So I created one shared object, this shared object which is of size three, right?
So I am pass the size as three.
This is buffer size is three, right?
So this object is used by both producer and consumer.
And producer is using this to produce item six items.
It will produce it.
Consumer I created one more thread consumer.
Consumer thread is consuming it.
Try to consume six items.
And here I am starting it.
So now what would happen is let's say I add this main first.
Here I created one shared buffer object.
So now let's say I have created one resource.
So in this shared buffer let's say it has a queue of size three right.
So this is your inside a.
Shared buffer object.
Shared buffer object inside has a queue, right?
So this is your queue.
Okay.
Of size three.
Okay.
Then what we have created, we have created one producer thread.
So we have created one.
Producer thread.
Okay.
We have created one consumer thread.
So here we have created one.
Consumer thread.
And now we are starting both.
And when the producer thread is started what it will do it will try to produce.
So it will try to produce.
And what consumer thread is trying to do.
When the consumer thread is started.
So consumer thread what it is trying to do.
It is trying to consume.
It is trying to Consume, right?
And whenever it will produce.
So it will always put a lock.
Synchronize method.
Always put a monitor lock on what?
On the shared buffered object.
Right.
So any one of them will always get a lock whether they are calling produce or consume.
Right.
Because even though they are different method, they are working on a same object, right?
So any one, only one of them can get a lock and either try to do produce or either try to do consume.
Okay.
So now based on this.
So just say that for example consumer thread is started first.
So this is started first right.
So at first is there any data item present into the queue.
It is empty.
There is no data present.
So what it will go.
It will go and wait state.
So it is empty.
So what it will do.
It will wait.
Now let's say second produce item goes inside, right?
Produce item goes inside.
And whenever the thread goes into wait state, it will release all the lock, all the monitor locks.
So this lock will be released which was held by Consumer first and now producer let's say goes inside
producer.
What it will do producer will try to produce it right.
So there is a size.
Yes, it is totally empty.
It will add an item.
So it will add an item and what it will call notify.
So if any thread which is waiting it will come out of it and it would be awake again.
So it will again uh racing for the lock and try to consume.
Okay.
So I think that is uh, should be pretty much clear if you are well understood, the concept of wait
notify monitor lock in the previous video.
If you have any doubt, let me know.
But please, please try to implement it with yourself, then only it will clarify you with much better
understanding.
Okay, so this is how I implemented the producer consumer problem.
Now let's move ahead with the.
So this is just an output.
But you can implement your own and see the output out because threads run can be different.
Right.
So your output could be different.
But please implement it now.
Very very important interview question like in the multithreading can you use stop resume or suspend
method.
We can but it is not.
You can say that promoted that you should use because these are deprecated method.
Why stop resume and suspended method are deprecated.
Very important.
So stop and suspended.
What they do is so stop terminates the thread abruptly, right?
So you know that thread life cycle.
So whenever thread life cycle there is, the last state is called terminate.
And when the last state reached terminate means thread dies.
There is no way thread can be invoked again with wait.
Thread is in wait state and can come back to active state when we call notify right with Thread.sleep
thread is in.
You can say that inactive state for some time and as soon as the timer finished it again goes to active.
But when you call stop on a thread it will terminate the thread abruptly.
Right means the thread dies and when we say abruptly means no lock release, no resource cleanup happen.
That's the problem with the stop.
So you know that when I told you, right?
Whenever a thread goes to wait, whenever you call Wait, it releases all the monitor lock.
So any lock which is acquired by a thread and it is, we are calling wait on it.
It will release that lock so that others can go inside.
Other can acquire the lock.
But when you are calling the stop no lock release happened.
It just dies and that lock remains present.
It can cause a deadlock situation.
Let's say thread one has acquired lock.
Lock on resource one.
Thread two is waiting for resource one to get free.
Now this thread one got suspended or stopped.
Let's say thread one got stopped means it dies.
And when it dies, the lock is not released.
It is terminate the thread abruptly.
So that's the problem.
It could.
So show this thread too.
Will keep on waiting now.
Similarly, problem with the suspend suspend is like a wait.
Generally you can say that.
So suspend is like put the thread on hold, but only difference between wait and suspend is that in
wait it releases the monitor lock.
But here in suspend it, no lock is released.
And that's why suspend method is also deprecated.
And it is always to tell that use wait or notify instead.
Rather than suspend and resume.
Resume method is used to invoke the thread which is in suspended state used to resume the execution
of suspended thread, but since suspended is deprecated, resume has to be deprecated too because it's
like wait notify.
It's like resume suspended.
So since suspend, do not release any lock right.
It could lead to a deadlock situation.
And that's why it is deprecated.
And since resume is used to make the thread active of the suspended thread, it has to be deprecated.
Okay, so now let's see an example of it.
Let's implement this with an example.
So let's say that what I'm trying to let's try to make this scenario.
Let's implement this uh main let's say thread one.
Thread two.
So what say that.
Let's say main started.
So let's say this is thread one th this is thread two.
So at time one main started at time two, thread one and thread two created.
So this is in created.
This is created.
Okay.
Now what we wanted is.
So let's say thread one acquire lock Thread two is required.
Lock on resource one.
Thread two is waiting for resource one and then thread one got suspended.
We want to implement this scenario.
So thread one should take the acquired lock first.
So now at time T3 right.
What we will do first are start.
Thread one and thread two.
So they both will start at T3.
So what it will do is at T3 it will acquire.
Lock.
So this is the shared resource let's say.
This is the resource R1.
Acquired lock R1 at T3.
I will make this sleep for one second so that it will not try to reach this.
So log has been taken by.
Thread one.
Right.
So thread one we will make it at tea time three.
At t four what we will do is after.
Uh this sleep one second finish.
Let's say this will acquire lock.
Now acquire lock.
Try.
Try to acquire lock R1.
Right.
So it will also try to lock.
So it is in.
So in the queue.
You can say that.
Who is waiting now.
Currently waiting for lock to release.
Thread two.
Thread two is waiting for lock to release.
So now it is waiting, right?
Let's make it read that it is waiting.
This is waiting currently because the lock is already acquired to thread one and now it is also wanted
the lock.
So it is now in waiting because the lock is not yet released.
Now what we will do at T5 this main thread will suspend.
T1 thread one so this will get suspended.
This will get suspended but the lock it will not release and thread two will be now in deadlock state.
It will just keep on waiting for the lock right.
So now let's implement this.
Let's try to implement this.
Okay.
So let's create one class call it shared resource.
So in this shared resource, what we can have is like, um, same let's say boolean is.
Available equals to false and I will I'm just creating one method like say public synchronized wise
produce it say is available equals to true.
Let's say this is the method.
This is the method they both want to actually call.
This will use a lock.
Now let's say that whichever acquired a lock.
So I will put
System.out.println lock acquired.
And here I will put that.
Lock released.
And between lock acquired and released let the thread uh sleep or keep the lock for at least eight 10s.
So let's say that I will put thread dot sleep for let's say.
Eight seconds.
So eight seconds thread will sleep.
Sleep.
Handle some exception here okay.
So this class is simple right.
So I have created one method like whichever calls this they will first acquire a lock.
Right.
And when the lock is acquired it will do some of its work.
So let's that's why I have kept it for eight.
Second you hold this lock or sleep because you know that this sleep method do not release the lock,
so it will hold the lock for eight second.
After eight second it will release the lock and comes out of this method.
Now I have to create the threads.
So this is the main method.
So now first let's create an object of the shared resource.
Resource.
Now on this shared resource both to both the threads will work on right.
Both the threads will work on.
So this is currently our main thread which is just started.
So here I'm printing main thread started okay so main thread is started.
So this is started.
Now we have to create two thread.
So I am creating thread thread one new thread.
I'm using a lambda expression to create it.
What it has to call it uh has to acquire the lock.
Right.
So actually it has to call is uh produce method.
Okay.
So here I would uh put System.out.println.
That's it.
Thread one.
Calling produce method.
Right.
So it is calling produce method.
But lock is not acquired.
Lock will be acquired one once only.
It will go inside this.
But it is just calling the method.
Now we are creating another thread.
Thread two new thread.
So what this thread two has to do.
First, it has to wait for some time so that thread one can start.
First can acquire the lock.
So I will make it let's say.
Sleep for one second and after it wake up from the sleep after it wake up from the sleep.
It will call on the same resource.
It will call the same method it wanted the log also.
Right?
So this is also.
Now thread two is calling the produce method.
But thread one has already will acquire the lock first and it will hold it for eight second.
And now thread two is waiting for the lock.
So now thread two will waiting waiting for the lock.
Try to acquire the lock, but it is waiting now.
So now let's start this.
Thread one dot start.
Thread two dot start.
So both will start.
So both will start right.
So both will perform their operations.
But some main has to suspend it also.
Right.
Main has to suspend this thread one.
So I will keep this main at least wait for some time.
Let's say I'll keep it.
Let's say for two second wait and let them.
Thread two comes out of the sleeve and call this method.
Let's say wait for three second.
After three second.
What main will do?
It will call thread one dot suspend.
See here it is deprecated method, but let's call it suspend.
So here I am printing that thread.
One is suspended thread one is suspended right.
And here main is main is finishing main thread.
Is finishing its work.
So main thread will go out of its task.
Okay so let's run this and see this.
Let's running.
Let's see that.
So main thread is started.
So first main thread is started okay.
Then what happened is we created two threads.
And when we call thread one start.
Thread two start.
So let's say thread one start thread one calling produce, thread one calling produce method and thread
two is waiting for one by the time.
And here if you see that lock acquired.
So it acquired the lock but it hasn't released it, it it is now sleeping for eight second.
By the time thread two comes out of one second sleep and it is also calling the produce method thread
two calls produce method thread two calling the produce method.
Now thread two is waiting for monitor lock to release right?
Because currently thread one is inside this sleeping.
It is sleeping right?
It is lock is not yet released.
Now, before the thread one finishes its work, what it does is that thread one is suspended, thread
one is suspended and main thread is finishing its work.
Main thread has completed its work.
But if you see that thread two is in a state where it is calling produce method so it never get acquired
the lock and it never releases the lock.
Also right, because it haven't acquired because it.
Thread two hasn't gone inside this inside this method because the lock is not yet released.
The lock which is hold by thread one, thread one has acquired the lock, now it is suspended.
This lock is not yet released.
So thread two is just inside this waiting.
Okay, so now let's say that, uh.
Here if after.
Thread, let's say wait for another three second.
Now it can call resume.
Resume is also deprecated.
But what resume will do is it will activate the suspended thread.
So now let's say.
So here now let's say that main thread is started thread one calling produce method.
And it will call the produce method.
And it will also acquire the lock also.
Now it is sleeping right.
Lock acquired.
Now thread two comes out of the sleep and it also calling thread two calling produce method.
But here thread one already acquired the lock so it is waiting.
Now thread one is suspended.
Thread one is suspended.
Now a thread.
One is suspended.
What happens is that.
Lock is not released.
So here if you see that the thread two cannot go inside it, thread two cannot go inside it.
So after waiting for three seconds, what means does is resume this and as soon as it resumes it, what
it does is lock release.
So the thread one which acquired the lock first it resumed, it completed its eight second, it releases
its lock, then the thread two, which is waiting for the lock.
Now it is acquired the lock and then it releases the lock also.
So resume is that I told you that resume work is to make activate the suspended thread again.
But now you might have noticed that when if you are not resuming it, if you have just suspended it,
thread two is just keep on waiting.
It never acquired the lock itself.
So here, if you see again, you will get to know that when the thread one is suspended main, just
finish its work, right.
Because we haven't, uh, resume it back.
So thread two is waiting.
If you see that the program is not stopped.
I have to stop it.
I have to manually stop it because thread program is still running.
Thread two is waiting.
So I hope you got it right.
Why?
The stop, suspend and resume is deprecated and I think you can implement it by yourself.
Also to see the it is does not release lock.
Okay now let's see what is thread joining.
So thread joining is like when join method is invoked on a thread object.
Current thread will be blocked and wait for the specific thread to finish.
What does it mean?
So here in the same example if you see that.
Okay, so here if let's say what happening here at this point of time.
Main method the main thread main thread is started right.
So what main thread is.
So let's keep it simple like uh we will keep it simple not thread two.
Right.
So let's keep it very very simple I will explain you with that.
So here I have one main thread this main thread one thread one right.
And it is calling the produce method which is taking eight seconds right to complete its work.
Now here we don't want to suspend.
Now what if does?
Uh, so as soon as the main thread make it a start thread one start main thread can finish his work.
Right.
So it's like this.
Main started it.
Created thread one.
It start thread one and it finishes off.
Now thread one can start working on its own.
Okay.
But what does join?
Does join says that if I make this like hey thread dot join thread one dot join.
So what I'm telling is hey main thread, you should wait for thread one to finish.
Don't terminate before itself, right?
So you should wait for thread one to finish, right?
So no matter how much time thread one takes so it will keep on waiting.
Join.
So main thread is waiting and as soon as thread one completed its work, now main is start working again.
So here before join, let's say if I run it, what you will see main thread is started.
Okay then after that it created the thread and it started.
So it will thread one calling produced method or before that it just after starting itself before thread
one get the control main thread is finished its work right, main thread is finished, it work and now
thread one is running thread one calling produce method.
Then it acquired waited for eight second and then put lock release.
But I don't want main thread to finish.
I want it to wait it for thread one to complete its task.
So I can say that thread one dot join right?
So let it wait for.
So what I'm saying is telling the main thread that whatever current thread it is running, I'm telling
that wait for this thread to complete.
So here let's put a main.
Main thread is waiting.
For thread one to finish now.
So now let's run it again and then see.
Main thread is started and main thread now reads here.
Main thread is now waiting for thread one to finish.
Now here.
If you see that, does it finish its work?
No, it is now waiting for thread one.
Now thread one has called produce method inside produce method it called lock acquired.
Wait for eight second lock release whatever time now thread one is taking after thread one has completed
its work, right?
This joint is like now automatically inside that it makes the main thread activate again and main thread
start working again.
Main thread is finished.
It's working.
Finish its work.
So you got it right.
What this joint does is it makes the current thread wait for any particular thread to finish.
And its advantage is it is helpful when we want to coordinate between threads or to ensure we complete
certain tasks before moving ahead.
So before moving ahead, I want that certain tasks to be completed.
Let's say thread one, thread two, thread three.
I want at least thread one and thread two to complete before I proceed further so I can wait.
Thread one, thread two dot join I am waiting for those two to complete, and as soon as those two threads
will complete, I can proceed further, right so give me more control if you have any dependency on
a particular thread.
Right.
You don't have to worry about wait.
Notify how you would know that the thread is complete or not.
So this join let you code build a coordination between threads that okay, once you finish it up let
me know.
I will start after that.
So you got the join right?
You see the example and try it out.
There is another called thread priority right.
So here if you see that whatever the thread which you which you are creating, let's say thread one
I created so you can set its priority, let's say thread one dot set priority.
So priority is going from 1 to 10.
So one means low priority and ten means high priority.
So you can define that priority there.
Or if you want to define the max priority, there is something called thread dot max priority right.
Minimum priority one norm priority is five.
Max priority is ten.
So what does priority says that here is it is an integer ranging from 1 to 10.
One is the lowest priority.
Ten is the highest priority.
So even if we set the thread priority while creation, it doesn't guarantee to follow any specific order.
Let's say I have created thread one, thread two, thread three, thread four four.
Thread I have created and I have given the priority.
Let's say I've given it's five four, it's given it's ten and it's given as one.
So I've given the priority.
So you might be expecting that okay.
Now highest priority will be picked first.
So T3 will pick first after that T1 after that T2 after that last is T4.
This is the sequencing.
You might be thinking, right, because you have defined the priority.
But no, that's what it says that JVM doesn't guarantee to follow any specific order.
It just a hint to the thread scheduler which to execute.
Net, but is not a strict rule.
Sometimes you might see this order right?
It's just you can say that hint right?
This is a priority.
Try try if you can give more priority to this thread.
Right.
But it never guaranteed.
You might see this sequence.
You might not.
Okay, so never rely on thread priority.
I would say that in production in whenever you are coding right in, you will never see anybody using
the thread priority, right?
And in the interview also if anybody asks you that hey can you rely on thread priority and will you
use it?
No, because it doesn't provide any guarantee to follow any specific order.
It's just a hint to the thread scheduler that okay, if you are thinking that, which one to pick out
of this two thread.
Next, it is a hint that this thread has high priority, but maybe thread scheduler has some other priorities
and it might decide to pick thread four, right?
So it's not in our end, it's just a hint we can provide to thread scheduler, but it doesn't put guarantee
or strict rule on thread scheduler.
So when new thread is created, it inherits the priority of the parent thread.
Right.
So here let's say main main thread has.
Let's say by default priority has five norm.
And if any thread you are creating out of it, it is also has by default five only.
If you want to set a custom priority, you can call this method.
As I mentioned here, set priority.
You can tell any priority, let's say ten for anything.
But I would again say that never rely on thread priority.
It's many times if ten times you will run right, nine times you will see that this sequence is not
even followed.
Maybe one time you can see the sequencing, right?
So avoid using thread priority overall.
Okay then we have daemon thread.
Very very important.
So what is daemon thread now.
So first of all let's understand the word daemon.
So this daemon word is used a lot in the industry.
So we have daemon components.
We have daemon this what does daemon means.
Daemon means something something which is running in a sync manner.
Something which is running a sync asynchronous right behind it is running.
That's known as daemon.
Right.
So what does daemon thread is so now.
So there are two type of thread user thread and daemon thread.
Whatever the thread which we are creating till now that is considered as user thread.
And whenever you want to create a daemon thread, you have to set a variable that.
So there is something called thread one dot is a daemon.
So there is a something called is daemon set daemon.
So we have to make it true.
So then only it would be considered as daemon thread right.
So whatever the thread you want to make it as a daemon, you have to make it true.
Then only it will be considered as daemon, otherwise it will be considered as user thread.
Now what does daemon thread means?
Now let's say you have a main method.
It is and main thread.
So main thread is running now.
From here you created one thread one till now.
Whatever we are creating, right?
I created thread one so this would be considered as your user thread, right?
Now let's say that uh here inside this I am creating another thread.
It is possible or let's say simple example not let's take another level of thread.
Let's say your main thread itself is considered as user thread.
Right.
This main thread is started now I am creating a thread one calling it as a demon demon thread I am setting
for this thread.
I am setting set demon equals to true.
Now what will happen is this demon thread will also start working.
But what is the difference between user thread and demon thread?
Is that so?
Now after starting this your main thread again start working right?
So it just initiate one thread and that thread will also start working.
Your main thread will continue.
Start working as soon as your user thread finished.
Working your thread will also get stopped, right?
So daemon thread is alive till.
Any one user thread.
Is alive.
If all user thread is finished, execution daemon thread will also stop, right?
Generally what happen is that if you have a main method, you create a thread like a user thread, and
if main thread stop working, that's okay.
Thread one will continue working.
It will not stop, right?
But when.
But if you define it as a daemon, if this all user thread finished working, this will also get stopped.
Let's see an example of it.
So here I have.
So this is my main thread started right.
So this is my thread one created.
Now let's say this is the normal thread.
And uh this is the normal thread which is doing some work and waiting for eight seconds.
And I'm starting this thread.
So we don't have to wait for this thread and main thread is finished working off.
So now if you are creating.
So this is also a user thread now.
So our expectation is that even if the main thread is finished working thread one will continue working.
It will not stop.
So we know this.
This is the expected behavior.
Main thread is started.
Main thread is finished working its work.
So main thread gone.
Main thread now have started the thread.
So now thread one will work.
Thread one calling produce method.
Acquire the log waited for eight second release it so thread one will complete take its own time, get
it completed.
But let's say that if I created this thread one set demon to true right now, let's see what happens.
Now.
Uh, let's see that.
Main thread is started.
Main thread is finished working right by the time Parallely.
It also called produce method lock acquired.
Now as soon as uh, this done all user thread finished working also.
So here if you see that it didn't waited for eight seconds and the lock is also not released kind of
thing, so means that demon thread is also get destroyed, right?
All log release.
Everything happened.
Daemon thread is destroyed, right?
So daemon thread is only alive till any one of the user thread is alive, right?
So by the time main thread started, right.
Then it started the thread, right?
So parallelly thread is also started and it also completed its work.
Right?
So it acquired the log and before it finished it off main finish its main thread finishes it.
And that also done daemon thread is also died.
So you got it right.
What is daemon thread and you know that why the daemon thread is useful.
So daemon thread is useful.
So it is useful for couple of tasks.
You know that uh, Java garbage collector one good example.
So if you see the examples right.
Garbage collector is a kind of a daemon.
So JVM has a daemon thread for a garbage collector where your program is running, and while it is running
garbage collector in the background it can go and release and free the memory.
Similarly, you can know that autosave you have autosave right in the editor while you are typing or
while you are working.
This autosave is working as a daemon thread like it will get invoked, right?
And it uh, what it will do is it periodically save it.
But as soon as your program finishes, that daemon will also get done.
Its life is also finished.
So autosave.
Uh, garbage collector.
These are very good examples of, uh, this daemon thread.
And it is important, like, uh, if you also want to do logging while your code is running, while
your program is in running mode, you should be able to do the logging only that time.
Right.
So you can create one daemon thread and it it will take the task of logging it.
Things up.
But as soon as your program finished working, daemon is also stopped working.
Right?
So logging is also one of the tasks which daemon thread can perform.
So here, if you see that daemon thread is very popular and very big or important task is generally
handled by them logging, garbage collector, auto saving, right.
And more.
So yes, this is for the today's topic.
I hope daemon threads thread priority line and this.
Why this top resume suspended method is deprecated and the producer consumer right.
It should be super clear right?
I I hope so.
But if you have any doubt, please let me know.
Uh, we will discuss more.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Lock & Condition | Java Multithreading | Reentrant, ReadWrite, Stamped etc ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to cover this different type of locks which are available as part of multithreading.
Right.
So this is very very interesting topic.
Right.
And you will see so many concepts which is related to system design.
Or you can say that DB locking and all that will comes into this picture also.
But it's good we will discuss everything okay.
So till now you know that uh we have synchronized block.
Right.
We have synchronized block.
This is a critical section and it is used synchronize is used to put a lock.
What type of lock.
Monitor lock.
Right.
So that if multiple threads are coming, only one thread will go inside this critical lock.
Okay.
So I'm pretty much sure that you are very much clear about synchronize, monitor, log and everything
as we have already covered before.
So you know that in the synchronize when it put a monitor lock.
This lock is depend upon object right.
So consider this example right.
So this is synchronize.
So let's say this is the class shared resource I have put this method producer as a synchronized right.
And very simple class.
Just lock acquired by which thread.
Doing some work making it sleep for four seconds so that we can test our changes.
What we want you to test just to make sure that it is inside a critical section, at least for four
seconds.
And after that lock released as it is just about to go out of the method.
Now in the main method, if you see that I am creating one object.
So here I am creating object one.
Right.
And this object one is used by thread one to call the producer.
Right.
So this object one.
So this producer method which has synchronize.
So it's a method.
So we have put a synchronize on a method produce method.
So this object one is calling this produce method.
So what will happen is this synchronize will put a monitor lock on this.
It put a monitor lock on this object.
Right.
This class object which we have created right.
So it's a shared resource.
One object which we have created right.
Shared resource and given a name one.
Resource one.
Now here if you see another thread I have created another thread.
And it is also calling a producer method, but through different object I created a different object,
object two and calling the producer method.
Now this is a synchronized block.
It will put a monitor lock over here right.
So here if you see that both the thread will go inside the block lock acquired by thread zero lock acquired
by thread one.
After four seconds both releases it right.
So you know.
Right.
Why?
Because monitor lock is placed on an object.
So first time when producer is called by thread one, the monitor lock is placed on resource one object.
And when thread two invoked it invokes with different object resource two object right.
So monitor lock is placed on that.
So that's why both acquire the lock right.
So this is already we know.
But now let's say that you have a requirement that hey no matter same object, different object, or
no matter what all object is coming to this.
This only one thread should go inside this critical section.
Only one thread should go inside this.
No matter whether they are coming through one object or multiple objects.
I don't care if they are trying to access this particular piece of code.
Only one thread should be able to access it, right?
Definitely.
This is actually what in real time scenarios generally is.
You can have multiple threads, right?
Working on different objects, right?
They might have create different objects, new objects.
Right now when they are calling this critical section code, only one thread should get it.
Now.
What to do now?
Synchronize will not work because it put a monitor lock, and that monitor lock is on a particular object.
If all are all threads are using the same object, then synchronize can be used, but now not in this
scenario where we have a requirement that we can have different different objects, write different
different objects and only one thread should go inside.
Now what to do.
So that's where we have this customs locks.
You can say that.
So there are four types of customs locks.
So one is.
Remnant.
Second is read write.
Third is semaphore.
And fourth one is stamped.
So we will see all four write.
And uh, one thing is these locks do not depend on object like synchronized method.
Right.
So let's take an example of first reentrant lock.
So here I have created a class shared resource class.
Right.
But now here if you see that I am not putting synchronized over here because we are not using synchronized
anymore, we are trying to implement the locking through custom locks.
So first we are doing reentrant locks.
So I created an object reentrant lock.
So now this producer want to put a lock.
So here using this object lock object it put lock dot lock.
So this will acquire the lock.
So lock acquired by thread doing some work.
And once the work is done in the.
Finally we have to make that unlock.
So it will release the lock.
And we have to win finally that.
So that no matter if any issue happens, Exception happened.
This finally block should execute.
So log should be released ultimately.
Okay so here you see that in the reentrant log we have to create an object.
And then we can use this two method lock and unlock to acquire the lock and release the lock.
Now in this it doesn't depend upon an object.
So currently if in this example here, if you see that I created an object resource this this class
object.
Now both are invoking it.
Thread one, thread two.
Right.
Uh let's change it now.
Let's, uh, implement it and let's create a different object.
Let me not have a.
So here I will pass this reentrant lock in request.
Right.
So this lock and this unlock.
And in the main let's say this is resource one.
This is resource two, right.
But now they instead of on object relying on object they relying on lock actually.
So we will pass the same lock to this.
Resource one.
Resource two.
So now what I have done is the same.
I have a shared resource class the producer method without synchronize.
Right.
Uh, I am getting this lock object into the parameter.
So I don't care whether you have, uh, using the same object.
Different object.
Don't care.
I am only worried about this lock.
So I am putting a lock using this and unlocking in when my work is done.
Now, in the main, I am creating first object of this class, and third one is using the resource one
and passing this lock.
Similarly, I created a second object.
Now C new shared resource.
This is resource two.
Now thread two is calling with different object right.
But passing the same lock.
So synchronized doesn't work here because synchronize work on same object.
But here we are using a lock.
Return lock do not depend upon one object.
It just depend upon lock.
And we are passing the same lock.
So again we should be seeing that the locking should be working as expected.
Lock acquired by thread zero.
Now for second.
It is waiting by thread one will wait by the time one thread zero release the lock thread one acquired
and then it releases.
So here if you see that even though we are using now different objects, still we are able to put a
lock, right?
Why?
Because now we are not using synchronized monitor lock.
Now we are using a custom lock using our reentrant locks.
Right.
So here it depend upon this lock object.
Now no matter how different objects you create, if you are passing putting a lock, acquire a lock
and release the lock on the same lock object.
It will work.
So you got this reentrant lock.
So at any point of time you have a requirement that we can have different objects, right.
But still we have to go only one allow one thread only to go into the critical section.
Then instead of synchronize we have to use reentrant lock.
Okay.
The second is read write lock.
Before I tell you about read write lock.
First you need to understand about shared lock.
And.
Exclusive lock.
Okay.
So whenever we put a shared lock.
So this is let's say read write.
So read write.
So whenever we put a shared lock right.
So now let's say that this are for shared lock.
This is thread one.
Uh this is thread two.
Thread two.
Thread one.
So if thread one has put shared lock or instead of this read, I have to put like, uh.
Like this.
Weird lock.
S exclusive lock.
Shared lock.
Exclusive lock.
So this is for thread one.
This is for thread two.
So if thread one has put a shared lock, which is also known as read lock, thread two is also allowed
to put a shared lock.
So me because you are just reading right two threads thread one, thread two.
Both can put shared lock on a particular resource, but they can only read.
They can only read, they cannot even write it.
And if any thread has put a shared lock, let's say thread one has put a shared lock, then thread two
cannot put an exclusive lock.
This is not allowed.
So what does it mean that Let's say if any thread has put a shared lock on the resource, then no other
thread can acquire an exclusive law.
No other thread can acquire this exclusive lock because shared leg is already granted.
Exclusive lock can only be taken when there is no lock on this resource.
No lock means not even shared, right?
And when you get an exclusive lock, you can even change the values of the resource.
But with the shared lock you can only read, but with exclusive lock you can read also right?
So whenever you have whenever any particular thread has acquired a shared lock, has acquired a shared
lock, then any other thread can not take exclusive lock.
This is not allowed.
Now let's say any particular thread, let's say thread one has acquired an exclusive lock.
Does any other thread allowed even to take a shared lock?
Know if an exclusive lock thread one if an exclusive lock is taken by any thread.
No other thread can even acquire the shared lock also because you know right?
With exclusive lock they can even change the value.
So when exclusive lock is taken, you can't even read it.
And similarly, when you any thread which has taken an exclusive lock other exclusive lock can also
not be taken.
So to summarize, if one thread has taken a shared lock on a resource.
Another thread can also take shared lock and read the values.
They can also take shared lock and read the values.
Okay.
And anybody want an exclusive lock condition is no resource.
Should not have any lock.
And once an exclusive lock is taken, no other lock can be taken until it is released.
Okay, so now I think you know about shared and exclusive lock.
Now let's come to the read write lock.
So read lock is nothing but a.
Shared lock scenario.
Write lock is nothing but an.
Exclusive lock scenario.
So read lock.
Say that more than one thread can acquire the read lock.
Write log.
Only one thread can acquire the write lock.
So how to do it?
So this is just an example.
We will also see the coding.
So this is the same shared resource class I have taken write and passing and object through The parameter.
Right?
So no matter, we will, uh, have a same object for this or different object of this doesn't matter
because now we are working on loc object.
So now here, if you see that the producer is putting a read loc.
So how this would loc dot read loc put a lock dot loc right.
And in the finally block we are unlocking it like this loc dot read lock unlock.
So producer is putting a read lock, consumer is putting a write lock lock dot write lock and it is
unlocking it.
Now here I created an object of this shared resource, created an object of this read write lock.
So now this is how you create a read write lock object.
Read write lock equals to new.
Read write lock.
So this is an interface.
This class is an interface.
And this is its implementation.
This is its implementation.
Okay.
So I created a read write lock.
Read write lock object.
Now thread one is calling the producer method with this lock right.
So it is putting a shared lock.
Now thread two is also accessing the producer.
So will it be able to allow it.
Yes because thread one has put a shared lock.
Read lock right.
So another thread is also allowed to read.
So it will also put shared lock right.
So it will read.
So generally we are changing the value here right.
So generally it should not change the value.
It should only read the value.
Read value only right during shared lock.
We should not change anything.
We should only read it.
So now these two threads are sharing shared the lock like both has put the shared lock on this critical
block.
Now here, if you see that one more thread right, even though it is creating different object but using
the same lock object.
Now it is calling the consume method.
Consume is putting right block.
So already already we have shared lock by thread one shared lock by thread two on this resource.
Right on this lock object.
Will it be allowed an exclusive lock?
Right lock is nothing but an exclusive lock.
Thread three wanted exclusive lock.
It will not be granted unless these two threads will release their shared lock.
So now let's see that one.
This is the read write lock.
Okay, so here we should only read the values, not write it.
Okay.
So here in the producer we are putting a read lock.
This is a shared lock.
And then finally we are unlocking it.
And in the consume method we are putting our exclusive lock.
And in the finally block we are unlocking this.
And in the main thread one is calling the producer method with this read write lock object.
So it will put a shared lock and it will wait for eight second.
Mean time thread two will also come and try to put a shared lock on the producer.
It would be allowed so both the thread would be read lock acquired by both thread one.
Thread two would gonna happen.
Now thread three is trying to consume on the using the same lock, wanted an exclusive lock, but till
both the threads don't release it, it should not be able to go inside.
Now let's run it.
So here if you see that read lock acquired by thread zero.
Read lock acquired by thread one.
Both thread acquired the lock.
Now both thread release it.
After that only the write lock acquired there.
Okay, so you got it.
The read write lock concept.
Read lock is kind of a shared lock which multiple thread can acquire, and it can only be used for reading.
The value write lock is for exclusive.
Once taken, no other thread can take it right.
And to take the exclusive lock, there should not be any lock present on the resource.
When to use it.
When to use.
So generally read write lock is used when your read are very high compared to right request very low.
So if your application reads is very, very high, let's say user are doing 1000 time read only ten
times right?
Then you should put these kind of locks right.
Because if there are multiple threads are creating they can acquire read locks and they can work.
They don't have to wait.
Right.
So based upon the requirement of your application, if your read is very high compared to your write
read write lock could be a better solution.
Okay, I think uh, this read write lock should be cleared.
Then we have stamp lock.
This is something very unique.
Uh, I'll tell you, uh, about this one.
So Stan block provide both feature that it provide read read write log capability of what this used
to do plus also optimistic read also.
Anyone who don't know what is optimistic.
Let's let's see this.
Let's see.
So there are two types of logs.
Pessimistic and.
Optimistic.
So whatever the logs which till now we have seen synchronize re-entrant read read write write.
So these are all are kind of a pessimistic where we put a shared log exclusive log kind of this thing.
But in optimistic log there is no log.
lock acquired.
There is no lock acquired.
So that's why it's named optimistic.
Okay.
So now let's see that how optimistic works.
Consider this a DB row.
So let's say.
I have an id let's say uh 123.
Another ID is four, five six.
Let's say some row.
I have a name.
Let's say uh, let's say ram.
Then we have a type, let's say student.
This is also student.
And there is one more row which is something called version row version row version.
Whenever a new row is inserted into a DB, row version is always one.
And whenever any update happens, right?
It keeps on incrementing.
So now let's say that if thread one and thread two both want to acquire a row number 123, row id 123.
They both want to simultaneously want to access this same row.
This one in pessimistic.
They might have put a lock.
Anyone will put a lock.
And anyone only will get the access to this resource.
They can update when they release other will get but in optimistic no lock is acquired.
Then what will happen?
So see what will happen is let's say first let's say at time one it will read one, two, three it will
also read one, two, three.
Both will read this row.
And they will also share that okay.
What is the version at that time when I read.
So it will share some Data.
Let's say raw version was one.
When I read this data one two, three.
It also read that okay, raw version was one when I read this row.
Now at let's say time two they perform some operation like it updates its type to let's say teacher.
And again at this at time two it performs some operation and it's update its type two X student but
not yet updated to DB, but they have performed some operation at time two now two scenarios.
Scenario one.
Scenario two two.
Scenario that.
Let's say that first thread two is going to update the DB first.
At time three it is update db with ID 123.
With this type is X student.
So now it is.
What it will do is it will go ahead and update this 123 student to X student.
But before update it will check.
Hey is still the raw version is one because when I read it raw version was one.
Still, the raw version is one, so it will check.
Okay, raw version is one right?
So it will update.
Let's say update 123 Ro update this update table.
Let's say it puts set your type equals to X student.
This is the X student it want to put right.
Let's say that uh where ID equals to 123.
And also it said n row version should be one.
Because when I read it it was one so I should work on the same row version.
So yes, row version was one so it will change it to.
X student updated successful.
Now let's say at time T4 it is trying to update update 123 what it is trying to update type to teacher
now before updating it will run a query that update table set type equals to teacher where id equals
to one, two, three and row version equals to one.
Because it.
This also row version was one previously.
Now it will check.
Hey this has already been incremented by two two because thread two has done one update successful.
And with every update I told you that row version get incremented.
So now when thread one was trying to update it will check that.
Okay, I want to update to teacher but row version should be one.
But now row version is incremented to two So this will fail.
It will roll back.
Now it has to go again.
And read again.
Its row version it will save is two.
It will perform its operation and then will try to update.
And then we'll say that.
Okay.
Update to teacher.
If row version was two.
Yes row version is two.
It will update to teacher.
Okay so you got it right.
How optimistic locking is working.
Optimistic locking is working by whenever you read the data you save the lock.
State that okay what is the version number that is.
The same happened here in the stamped.
Also so stamped has two functionality.
One is read write lock functionality the same as this read write lock.
And another is optimistic locking functionality.
Let's say quickly see this read write lock functionality.
This is very very similar to this previous one.
So here in the shared resource, I created this stamp lock.
Right.
Either you can pass into the parameter, but I have created into this class itself.
Now I am putting a redraw lock dot read lock.
So you can use this syntax to create a read lock.
And in the finally you can unlock like this.
Now here if you see one difference that when you put a read, lock it, return one stamp and during
unlock you have to pass it.
Now you can ask, right?
Hey, why?
Why am I putting a read lock?
I get this stamp and why in unlocking I have to put it.
This is because I told you that stamp lock also support optimal locking, right?
And in the optimist locking, whenever you read it, you have to share the state some version.
What was the row version at the time when you read it?
So it puts certain you can say that stamp or state of a law kind of right.
It puts some state and unlocking it, it uses that.
Right.
So this is for read lock and unlock read.
It might not be useful, but during Optimist Lock this would be helpful.
How?
See this part.
Now here in the same shared resource to use an optimist lock I put lock dot try optimist read.
Now it will return the stamp the same as when you try to put a read lock.
Now when you have performed your operation like let's say you wanted to update anything and all.
Now before updating a value, you need to check that.
Okay.
Is there any write operation happen?
Like by the time I read And by the time I write between this time, any other thread has done some updation
or.
Right.
How do you validate?
So I know right?
So I told you how to validate how the optimistic locking works using a row version.
Using during update it checked that okay row version should be same.
Then only update should be performed in Java.
It has expose one method called.
Validate.
So lock dot validate stamp.
So whatever the stamp we got while putting a read lock or try optimistic read.
So we will validate that.
So this will tell us that okay is any write operation has happened or not.
By that time you were performing is any other thread has done the write operation or not.
So here if you see that this stamp is generally useful in validating it.
Optimistic locking right.
And for optimistic locking you don't need any unlock.
There is no unlock kind of thing because you haven't put any lock.
I hope you understand optimistic lock functionality.
There is no locking so we are only just try optimistic read.
So this is nothing.
This is not putting any lock.
This is just storing the raw version kind of thing that okay when I'm reading it what is the state.
And if in mid anybody has changed the state of the lock anybody has changed the state of the lock.
This validate method will become false.
Right.
So now let's see an example.
If you want to see an example of read write lock functionality of the stamp.
So we can also see that one.
So this is stamp lock.
So here if you see that uh this is I'm performing optimistic one.
So read write log.
I think it's very basic.
Right?
You put a read lock and unlock, you will put pass a stamp.
That's the only difference.
And you know that this stamp is useful for optimistic time.
But since both are supported into the stamp.
So this is generally we pass.
But generally in the read lock unlock read this stamp is not much useful.
It is useful during validate during optimistic read.
Now let's see the optimistic part.
So here in the producer method I am doing an optimistic read.
So here it stores the state of a lock okay.
Now it is taken the optimistic.
So there is nothing lock taken an optimistic read.
It does certain operation.
Let's say it wanted to update 10 to 11.
It tries to do it now it wait for six second Now it try to validate.
Hey, in the meantime, while I was doing some work.
Is anybody has changed this perform any write operation on this lock.
If no write if it is valid then your update is successful.
If it not, rollback your work again, change it back to ten.
And in the consumer part I am taking a write lock just to make sure that yes, somebody has taken a
write lock, do certain work and unlock it right.
So when you put a write lock, it will take a stamp.
When you unlock it, it will pass the stamp.
So when you are taking the stamp and passing it right, so it will change the status of this stamp of
this lock.
So that's why is able to validate.
So there is not nothing much this stamp in locking and unlocking it.
But it is helpful for optimistic.
So it just doing some incrementing the version of this locking internally which optimistic locking optimistic
read is using it to validate right okay.
So when you have write it.
So it might be increasing internally increasing the stamp value.
So it might be increasing the stamp value.
So stamp start adding something into this.
So it adding certain stamp value of this lock and optimistic reads and validate that okay.
Is there change it or not.
So now let's see that I've created an object of this.
I am running a thread one calling the producer consumer.
So when the producer will call, it will read an optimistic read, change it to 11, wait for six second
by the time it is waiting.
By the time it is waiting, what it will do.
Thread two is consuming it.
It will put a right lock, it will do something and it will unlock.
So unlock.
Increase the version.
So stamp is change.
Now after it wake up from six second thread one and it will check.
Okay.
Is it the stamp is still valid or not?
If it is valid, update the db or update the value.
If not, roll back to back.
So now let's see that.
Take an optimistic read write log acquired by thread one.
Right.
So it has acquired the write log performing some work right.
Log released.
Write log released.
Right.
And after six second it wake up and validate it.
Roll back.
Right.
So here.
But if you see that.
If the thread two.
If thread two hasn't started right.
So means there is no operation happen.
No right.
Operation happen.
Take an optimistic read.
Waited six second no right operation happen in mid.
So it should be successful.
This validate method is success.
So nothing but a internally validating the version right.
So if you understand this part right optimistic locking part how it maintains the row version and how
during multiple threads they are able to perform concurrency without even putting a lock with the help
of row version.
Then understanding this are stamp lock is very easy.
It's the same thing.
Okay, Do practice it.
So now let's see the semaphore lock.
I know that you might have read it in operating system semaphore.
It is exactly the same, but only difference is that.
So this is how we are creating a semaphore object.
Semaphore object name equals to new semaphore here.
If you see that permits I have put two.
What semaphore does is again it does the same thing.
It allow a particular thread to go inside a critical section.
But it has one additional factor that if you have permit okay I have passed two means two threads can
go inside, two threads can acquire the lock at the same time.
Right.
That's its feature.
So here in this shared resource I created a semaphore lock and provided in the constructor two means
two threads can acquire this lock.
So this lock dot acquire is used in the semaphore to acquire the lock.
Lock dot release is used to release the lock.
So now let's see its example.
Right.
Very easy.
So I have created a two.
Right.
And the same method producer putting a lock.
Sleeping it for four second.
Releasing the lock.
And finally now in the main thread here if you see that I have created thread one, thread two, thread
three, thread four four, thread all try to access producer.
So here semaphore object.
How many two threads can acquire the lock at the same time?
So let's see that.
Lock acquired by thread zero.
Thread one okay, but thread three.
Thread four waiting two threads release the lock, then next two threads acquired it.
So okay.
Lock released by thread one.
So another lock is acquired.
Lock Um, then what happen?
Is Locke released by thread zero.
So here, if you see that Locke acquired by thread zero Locke acquired by thread one.
So both the locks were acquired two threads goes inside the critical block Locke released by thread
one.
So one space is free.
Now it has been given to the thread three now another Locke acquired by thread two as the Locke has
been released by zero now thread three.
Thread two also releases it, so you got it right.
Semaphore has one additional functionality that what, uh, Reentrant and Synchronize was providing
right lock unlock it allow you that more than one thread can acquire a lock.
At the same time you can control the number.
So in which scenario this semaphore comes into the picture.
Let's say you have two printers.
Printer one, printer two.
You can allow two threads to come only at a time.
So you want to control how many thread can come into this block and perform the work?
Similarly, there is something like connection pool.
Connection pool.
So it has certain pool of connection and you want only okay I have five connections in a pool.
So you want at a time only maximum five threads to come in right.
More than five thread you can't allow because maximum you have is like five connection pools right.
So five connection is taken as soon as one is free.
One thread which goes out goes in right.
So always maximum five threads can come work simultaneously.
So in all those scenarios semaphore lock is helpful.
Now because of this locks re-entrant read write A stamped semaphore.
One thing you must have think about is inter-thread communication.
So earlier you know that when you put a synchronize it, put a monitor lock.
And we have something called wait and notify which also works on this monitor.
Lock and thread can communicate with each other.
We have seen producer consumer problem right.
So wait and notify threads can communicate with each other.
But they all work using synchronized monitor lock and all.
But now with this stamp reentrant read write lock that is we are not using monitor lock.
So wait and notify also cannot be used.
That's where condition comes into the picture right.
So what will happen is we have two different method here await and signal.
Await is equivalent to wait.
Signal is equivalent to notify.
Exactly the same.
No difference at all.
We have something called notify.
All right.
Here we have signal all which is equal to notify all.
So no difference at all.
Only thing is whenever you are using these type of lock, custom locks right.
Are not synchronized.
Not monitor lock then true for inter-thread communication.
Instead of wait notify you have to use condition and condition method provides this await and signal.
Let me show you how.
So here this is the condition.
So here I have put a reentrant lock right.
So I am putting a lock.
The same kind of a producer consumer problem only but very simple.
Not with Q but with a variable.
If it is already available then it has to wait.
Right.
It can't add more if it is already available.
So what I have done is I have created a condition on this lock.
Lock dot.
New condition.
It gives me a condition.
This is an interface, right?
And it give me an object of this new condition.
New condition object.
So it will give you a new condition object which has two method await and signal.
Right.
Await and signal.
So now let's say it taken a lock.
Now it is checking that okay.
Is it available?
Yes, it is already available.
Then it has to wait for it to consume.
So it instead of wait I use await condition dot await.
So this where it is waiting?
It is waiting on a lock.
Now you have to understand now that it is there.
There is no concept of waiting on lock, waiting on object.
Now everything is happening on a lock.
So I have created a lock object.
Put a condition on this lock.
Right.
Got a condition object.
Now if I have to make a thread.
Wait, I use this await.
So now what will happen is thread is waiting on this lock, right?
If it is not available means I have to produce it.
I produce it and I put a signal.
So it put a signal on this lock.
Whichever, whichever thread is waiting on this lock, it will signal them.
So signal is only one, right.
So only any arbitrary thread would be signal.
If you want to signal all the threads you can put signal all.
Similarly consumer which will do is it will put a lock.
If it is already consumed.
It has to wait so it can wait like this.
Using the condition dot await.
But if it is available, it will consume it and it will ask the producer to wake up so that they can
add value.
So it put a signal.
Exactly.
Same, right?
Right.
Wait.
Notify.
But instead we have to put a await and signal.
Right.
And if you run it.
Producer lock acquired by thread zero.
Lock released by thread zero.
Producer lock acquired by thread zero.
Now it is in waiting right now when producer is waiting, only consumer can.
Once it consume it, it has to awake it right?
So now consumer runs it acquired and while releasing it, it might have done the signaling before releasing
it, it might have done the signaling.
So once its signal is producer lock also runs now.
So you got it right.
How this generally works.
Producer consumer we have already seen only I wanted to tell you that wait notify will not work if you
are using this.
This locks instead of synchronize monitor lock.
Right.
So these are different type of locking which is good to know right.
Because uh when you go inside Java collections and all right, synchronize collections, uh, concurrency
collections, you will see this kind of locking which happens.
So it good that you should be aware that these kind of lock happen.
What is optimistic lock.
What is shared lock exclusive lock.
And uh this basic functionality.
So please practice with your hand.
You will get more better clarity.
And if you have any doubt let me know in the comment section.
We can discuss more.
Thank you Tim.
Bye.

--- Lock-Free Concurrency | Compare-and-Swap | Atomic and Volatile Variables ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in multithreading we are going to cover these two topics atomic variables.
And also we will see the difference with the volatile and also the concurrent collections.
We have already discussed concurrent collection during the collections topics when we were discussing.
Right.
But we will have a quick look at it.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So here if an interview, if anybody asks you, hey, in how many ways you can achieve the concurrency,
right.
What would what would your answer would be.
So there are two ways in which we can achieve concurrency.
One is the lock based mechanism.
Another is lock free mechanism.
So lock based we have already seen so many different ways.
Synchronize reentrant stamp read, write semaphores.
All this we have seen already.
But there is another way.
Lock free mechanism, right?
In this we have put locks right?
To make sure that only one thread comes into the critical section.
But in the lock free mechanism which helps to achieve concurrency but without using any locks.
Lock free.
So definitely which one is faster?
Lock based or lock free?
Definitely this is faster.
But remember that this lock free mechanism is not an alternative to lock based mechanism.
This lock based mechanism can be used at very, uh, different scenarios where we have lot of complexity,
where we have lot of business logics.
This will comes into the picture.
Lock free mechanism is used.
Very specific area very very specific use case, I would say that okay, I will tell you about that
use case slowly when we will go into the further of this video.
But there is very specific use case only in that case you can use lock free mechanism.
And in that case you can achieve faster result than lock log base.
Right.
But apart from this specific use case, log based mechanism is something which helps you.
So that's why I wanted to clarify that it is not an alternative to log base mechanism, but it is one
of the way to achieve the concurrency.
For some specific use case, we will see that okay, so which operation or which technique is help to
achieve lock free mechanism.
That is cache operation.
Compare and swap.
And Java provide these four classes which uses this technique.
Acne, right?
And helps to achieve the concurrency.
But before I tell you about this cache operation.
Before I tell you about the cache operation, I want you to have a just remind quickly about the optimistic
locking.
Right.
So, you know.
Right.
Optimistic locking.
In the previous video I have told you about the optimistic locking or it is uh, it or I would say that
not optimistic locking I would say that optimistic concurrency control.
Optimistic concurrency control because it's also a lock free.
It also a lock free protocol.
And also what happens in the optimistic is remember, let's give one minute to quickly remind you because
this is very, very important to link with cache.
Right.
Because both are lock free protocol.
Right.
So let's say you have one row in a table.
So this is let's say row number One, two, three.
The student is Raj.
Right.
This is name.
And this is row version.
Row version one.
Now let's say there are two thread.
Thread one.
Thread two.
Both read.
Row number 123123.
Both read this same row.
Now they have recorded the row version.
Row version was one at this when it reads row version was one when it reads okay, now what it's done
is it made it modify something let's say from uh age K it has put the change the name to Raj K, and
it has modified to Raj a Raja.
Right.
So they have certain, uh, modification is done on the name.
Right?
And now they are trying to update the DB.
Okay.
Now let's say thread one coming first.
So this is going first right.
So this is going first.
Update the DB.
So it will try to let's say it will run the query update this table.
Right.
You update your table.
What it will do.
It will set your name to let's say Raj K right where roll number is 123.
The roll number is 123.
Change its name from Raj to Raj K and your version row version should be one.
What is the row row version when it read this row one.
So now it will run this update query.
Update this row right?
Change Raj to Raj K Right where roll number is one two, three and the row version is one.
So this will get success.
Yes.
Row version is one.
Row number is one, two, three.
It will change this to.
Raj k.
So here when the first when the first thread updated the successfully this row it also increment the
row version.
It also increment the row version.
So now when the thread to running this update query update the table name Raja roll number is 123 with
row version is one.
So it will say that yes row number is 123.
Does row version is one?
No row version has already been changed.
Who changes thread one.
Change it because when it any update operations it does any update any change modification on this row
happens.
The row version gets incremented.
So now here, when the thread two is trying to update this, it says that hey, still raw version is
one.
No raw version has been changed.
This means that somebody has changed this value in the meantime, when it reads and it when it about
to write it in between mid somebody has changed this value.
Now what it has to do, it has to again read it.
So now when it again read it what would be the read row version value two.
Now it will modify it.
And now it will again run this update query with row version now two.
And when it try to update now it would be able to update that row version is two, row number is 123.
Change it to Raja and also increment the row version by one three.
So you got it.
This is optimistic concurrency control.
Now let's come to this CAS compare and swap.
This technique is also exactly the same as optimistic locking.
But it's a low level operation.
What does it mean?
It's a low level operation means it is supported by CPU.
In all modern CPU, this operation is present.
Cass operation.
Right.
It's atomic.
What does it mean?
That atomic means single unit, no matter how many cores this CPU has one core, two core, three core,
four core CPU, and if multiple threads are running in parallel, then also it provide atomicity of
this operation.
Which operation Cass operation no matter core one, core two, core three multiple threads are running.
This Cass operation is atomic and all modern processors support this operation.
Cass operation compare and swap technique.
Right.
So what actually, this Cass operation is so here this Cass operation has involve three main parameter
memory expected value.
The new value here, let's say this is my memory.
This is my memory M1 right.
And I have variable.
Let's say x value is ten.
Right now let's say that uh this cache operation right.
Accept three parameters.
One is memory.
Second one is expected value.
Third one is new value.
So now what this cache operation does is.
So first this memory it will load the variable data.
Right.
So where the variable is stored.
So from this memory it loads this data variable data.
So it loads load or read.
Variable from memory.
Let's say m one second.
What it will do, it will compare.
Second part is compare.
Compare of what the data stored in this memory and the data which you are expected to be.
Is it same or not.
Compare memory data versus expected value if they are matching or not.
If they are not, matching means something has been changed.
If it if it is matching, then what it has to do is update the new value to this update new value to
this memory.
So this has been changed to whatever the new value you wanted.
So that's why the name compare and swap.
So what it will do is from this memory it will first read the data.
Then it will compare it with the expected value.
What the expectation is if it matches, then only it updates this memory with the new value.
So this is this isn't it very similar to optimistic locking in the optimistic locking itself.
When you run this update query you tell that okay this is the raw version which I am expecting it to
be.
If this raw version is the same, this is my expected right?
And this is the present in the DB.
Or you can say that let's say in memory this is present in the memory.
This is my expected.
If this matches then only update the new value, then only update the new value.
Right.
So you can say that optimistic locking is inspired from this CAS actually.
So CAS compare and swap operation is a low level operation which works inside a CPU.
So it's a CPU operation.
Optimistic locking mostly works with DB.
Optimistic concurrency control works with DB.
But in CPU has this CAS operation right?
And your code like in Java there is a classes like atomic integer, atomic boolean.
It helps you to access this CAS operation.
You should be asking hey what is ABA problem?
ABA problem can happen.
So what does it mean is that let's say this memory has this x value as ten.
And uh, what?
CAS says that.
Okay, this memory M1 expected is ten.
This is your expected.
And this is your new value.
New value.
I wanted to put, let's say 12 this I wanted to put right.
So first read M1, then compare M1 value with expected and then update if matched.
Okay now let's say that thread one wanted to run this right M1 1012.
Now let's say that some operation has changed to 12.
After that some operation has changed back to ten.
And now thread one is running.
But the thread one when it read it was ten.
This value.
But here, if you see that read M1.
Compare the M1 value.
It is again ten.
Does it match with the expected?
Yes.
So it will change it to the new value.
Let's say new value is 13 so it will change it to 13.
But here one issue is that the expected ten is not.
This is actually the this one.
It has changed over the time.
Some threads has changed this value.
But somehow the latest value match with the expected that is known as ABA issue in the cache.
So this is easily resolved with adding a version.
Also version number with the memory.
So that's why this ABA problem is easily resolved using version or timestamp with this memory data also.
So ten when it added it, version was let's say his version was one.
When 12 was added it was version was changed to two when again ten was come.
It was version was three.
So now here this ten with version one was coming.
So.
But now this is ten with version three.
This doesn't match so update will not happen.
So I think you might be relating that hey both are very similar right.
Optimistic concurrency and this.
Okay.
Now we know that how the CAS works.
Now let's say little bit talk more about atomic variables.
Now.
What does atomic means.
Atomic means single.
Or we can say that all or nothing.
Okay.
So now let's say that when I say that uh int counter some variable equals to ten.
This is atomic right?
It is a single operation.
It's a single operation Oppression.
No matter how many threads will execute this, it would be consistent.
But consider this example.
Consider this example I have created a shared resource class.
In this I am creating one variable counter and I have one increment method which does counter plus plus.
Very simple.
And this get method which return this.
So I created an object of this class shared resource.
Now I am calling this increment method 400 times resource dot increment and doing get.
So till now I have only one thread.
This works fine, works fine.
And what would be the output?
Output would be 400, right?
Why?
Because only one thread is running.
Calling it 400 times, right?
But remember this.
This is not atomic.
This is not atomic operation.
Why?
Let's expand this.
Plus.
So what?
When you do counter plus, plus, it include three steps first.
Load counter value.
Second.
Increment it by one third.
Assign back.
So it's it's equivalent to like counter equals to counter plus one.
So first load the value.
Then add one to it.
Increment it and then assign back.
So it has this three operations.
And this three operations are not atomic Right.
They are not a single unit.
Now, let's say that what will happen?
I have two threads.
Thread one, thread two.
Right.
So currently let's say counter value is let's say currently counter value is zero.
And let's say thread one.
Thread two both runs in parallel load counter value.
Both runs it.
It will read counter value zero.
It will also read counter value zero.
Both incremented by one.
So counter value is become one one and assign back.
So what would be the counter value now one.
But it should be two actually right.
So that's why I told you that this is not an atomic operation.
This is not thread safe.
So this is the same thing which I did, let's say this 400 times.
I divided into two threads.
So the same example.
Now this 400 I created two thread.
This thread one is running 200 times.
I created another thread which is running 200 times.
So 200 times it is calling this increment method and thread two is calling 200 times this increment
method.
Right.
And I have started both now here because of this issue.
This is not atomic.
This is not a single unit.
This is a problem that two threads, when it load the counter value, they might read the same value
incremented by one and overwrite assign it.
So there might be some loss of data.
And that's what actually happen when I run the output 371 comes instead.
It should have come 400 right.
But why it comes 300 because this is not atomic operation.
It is not one single operation.
There are it is a three steps process.
And they are not atomic.
They are not thread safe.
So we have to make it thread safe.
How?
Two solutions we know.
One is using lock like synchronized.
Let's say if I put a synchronize over this increment method.
It the problem will resolve.
Right.
If I put this synchronized then no matter how many threads would be when thread one, thread two try
to increment right only thread one.
Only one thread will go inside it.
Only one thread will complete its operation, then only another thread will go inside it.
So lock is one of the solution.
But there is another solution which is lock free operation like an atomic integer.
So second solution is using lock log free operation like atomic integer, atomic integer internally
uses what?
CAS.
Now you already know what CAS is.
Compare and swap.
So here I have changed the shared resource this integer to atomic integer.
Now this.
My counter is atomic integer.
I have assigned it with the zero initially.
Now when I am doing increment now I am not doing C++, I am doing like counter plus increment and get.
There is a method increment method present inside this atomic.
Now I am doing increment using that.
Now what would happen now let's see the code.
Okay, now let's say I am changing it to atomic integer.
Let me little bit.
Increase it.
Okay.
Now let's say atomic integer.
Initially I assigned it with zero.
Now instead of doing counter plus plus I want to do counter dot increment and get.
So this increment will increment by one if you have to increment by a specific value.
There is a method which we can assign.
We can add that value add add and get.
It will add that much right.
But if you want to increment only one.
So this method we can use.
But now here if you go inside this method like if you go inside this what it is using compare and swap
it.
Using what compare and swap.
So first this is like your memory.
What is the expected you wanted and what is the value you wanted to update.
So here atomic can be used in which use case.
Read.
Modify update whenever you have this use case simple use case read then modify and then try to update.
You can use atomic okay so here when we did counter plus plus right here.
So counter equals to counter plus one.
So I told you right.
It include three steps.
One is read the value modify it add plus one and then update.
In that case only atomic can be used.
And since there it is lock free it is faster.
Initial atomic integer which I passed is zero right.
So this is a value here.
If you see that this atomic integer.
This is the value which will get set first.
And it's a volatile I will tell you what volatile is.
But first let's understand atomic first.
And then I will come to this volatile understand this.
This value is initially set with this new atomic integer.
So this is an atomic integer class atomic integer.
And the value is set to zero.
And this is my memory.
This is my memory.
It is present zero.
This well is just nothing but a reference to it.
Let's say that this well is reference to this memory.
Okay, let's understand that now what I'm doing is we are doing increment and get right now.
If you go inside this increment and get method.
Let's go inside this increment and get what it is doing.
It is doing.
Do first.
It will get this value.
Get this value.
So what it is doing it first do.
Let's say V or let's say expected.
Read value.
This is our value variable.
It read this value variable.
And since this is marked as volatile it will always goes to a particular memory and then reads it Right?
So just remember that it is reading from memory, not from cache.
Right.
So read value variable.
Okay.
Now it doing while not your compare and swap operation.
This is your memory comma.
This is the expected and the new value it sends.
So this is the memory.
This is your expected.
And this is the new value which you wanted to set till.
This cache operation is not success.
A thread will continue to try doing this.
So now let's say that what would happen is you did increment and get.
So this method increment it get.
What is the delta?
Delta is nothing but a plus one, right?
So here what it is doing is read the value from the memory.
What is the value?
It read what?
The value it read from here zero.
So your expected is here zero.
Now it is calling the cache.
So here if you see that this atomic integer is providing you and a way to access the CPU level, low
level operation cache operation which provide the atomicity.
So it is passing this cache till this memory.
What is the expected is zero.
And the new value is delta is plus one so zero plus one.
So this right.
So that is what is doing right.
Well plus delta delta is it send one increment and get right plus one.
So it send one.
Now internally cache.
You know that how it works.
So it will first CAS will do what CAS will do first.
So CAS will do first load data from this memory.
So what it will load from this memory.
It is currently present zero zero.
Second compare it with expected value expected.
Is this so zero and this zero.
Both match zero equals to equals to zero.
So this is your expected and this is the value read from memory.
If this matches yes it match then it will update the memory with the new value.
Update memory with new value.
So it will update it with one.
It will change it to one.
Right.
But now let's say some scenario.
Let's say that some scenario.
Um.
Okay.
Now let's try to do the same rough work, but with scenario that something has been changed.
Something has been changed in mid.
Okay.
Now let's say that there are two threads.
Thread one.
Thread two.
Okay.
Both threads call this increment method at the same time.
Both threads call this increment method at the same time, right.
So this increment method.
This is actually the increment method.
Now both threads thread one.
Thread two comes over here.
So both will read the value from the memory, right?
What was the value from the memory is that this is zero.
Both will read the zero.
Right.
So both thread one.
Thread two.
Read expected is zero.
Expected is zero.
Okay.
Now they are performing cache operation.
So there is a cache operation.
Now this is cache operation is atomic thread one.
Thread two.
Wanted to access it, but we know that CPU provide the guarantee that this cache operation is atomic.
So only one thread can go inside.
Now let's say thread one is going inside.
So thread one you know that what cache will do.
Cache has three step.
So here in the cache what it will do.
It will first read data from memory.
It which comes at currently zero.
And then it will compare your expected with the memory value.
So expected is what expected is zero.
And in the memory it was also zero.
So it will update.
So it will update it to one.
Now let's say some version.
So let's I'm keeping aside the version.
But let's say value is updated.
Thread one is success.
Now thread two is going inside this cache operation.
Now thread two is doing this cache operation going inside.
Read the data from memory.
What is the data in memory is now one one.
Compare the expected with the memory value.
Expected is zero, but in the memory it is one.
Does it match?
No, it doesn't match.
So what it will do is this will return false.
This will return false.
It fails.
And when it falls, it will go back again.
It will keep on trying till this cache operation is success.
So now it will read the value from the memory again.
So E is now memory is one.
Now it's trying to perform a cache operation again.
So it will read from one.
Expected is also one one equals to equals to one.
Then update increment is now two.
Right.
So you got it right.
How this cache operation is helping.
And this increment and get is internally using nothing but a this compare and swap.
This is a native method which is implemented in C++.
Or maybe C.
We don't have access to that.
But Java provides this functionality through this atomic class that we can access this CPU operation.
Okay.
So there are different.
Uh, you can have like atomic integer for boolean, you can have atomic boolean, atomic long.
And for objects any object you can do atomic reference.
Right.
But again this is it's scenario or it's very very limited.
So whenever you have a scenario like read modify update, only in that scenario go for atomic.
Otherwise you have to go for lock.
Okay.
I think atomic should be clear, right?
Now many engineers get confused with atomic with volatile.
Atomic with volatile.
Okay.
So first of all this is provide thread safe operation.
This is nothing like a no relation with thread safety.
No relation With concurrency.
Or you can say that not thread safe.
So here what volatile actually is.
So see this is your CPU core.
This is your CPU core two.
Each CPU has one L1 cache two internal.
Or let me put it to like this.
Outside L1 cache L1 cache right.
Each CPU core has their individual cache.
Then there can be like L2 cache.
And ultimately there could be a memory your Ram.
Right.
Let's say that okay.
So generally this is the scenario.
So here if you see that volatile when you have let's say that uh this is thread one is running over
here.
Thread two is running over here in this core.
And uh, they are working on a variable x.
X equals to ten.
Now it incremented that x plus plus it incremented like x plus plus.
So now it will update it.
Or let's say that x plus plus it will become 11.
So it will put first into L1 cache x equals to 11 here.
Right.
Or let's say that now after this operation has been done.
Now thread two is coming and it is reading the value of x.
Read x value.
Now it will first check hey does L1 cache.
Hey do you have x value present.
No it will go to L2 cache.
Do you have this L2 cache present?
Uh x value present?
No.
Then it will check in memory and memory.
Currently x is ten.
So now this x equals to ten would be read here.
So here if you see that this issue might come because this is how generally in our CPU structure is
L1 cache.
First store the data.
And periodically this L1 cache gets sync up with each other.
But it might be possible that in one core thread has increment the x value, but it has not yet synced
up.
Let's say this sync have not yet happened, but if in another code another thread try to read this x
value, it will check its L1 cache.
Hey, do you have x value then L2 cache?
Do you have x value?
Then it ultimately goes to memory.
Do you have x value?
Yes ten.
But it has older value.
11 is not there.
So what volatile does is volatile.
Make sure that read and write should happen from memory.
So when the thread one.
When the thread one are trying to do that here let me little bit clear it.
So x is ten internally.
So so let now let's say I created this volatile x.
Now anybody try to read x it will not look into this L1 cache.
Not L2 directly.
It read from memory.
Okay.
It is value is ten.
So it will modify it.
And whenever write happens it will write also happen directly to memory.
So it will not update its L1 cache or L2 cache.
It will write directly to memory 11.
Now CPU has read x value read x value.
Since it is volatile, it will directly read from memory, read from read x value so directly goes to
the memory and read it.
11.
So now what does volatile make sure that any changes which are done by one thread is visible to another
thread.
Also, because the read and write directly happens to the memory, not to the cache, right?
Because there might be some scenario where the data is present only in the L1 cache, but memory and
memory sync have not yet happened, or within the L1 or within the course L1 cache is not yet sync up.
In that case, other CPU core other thread might read the stale value, right?
So you understand that what actually volatile means.
But this is nowhere related to provide a thread safety.
Atomic operations is like provide thread safety.
Multiple threads are like running in separate like they are not interfere between each other.
I hope it is clear.
Don't mix.
Atomic and volatile.
Both volatile is just to make sure that any read or write to a variable happens directly from memory,
so that any change is done by one thread is visible to another thread.
But it doesn't guarantee that the concurrency properly.
Concurrency is guaranteed by atomicity.
Through what?
Through cache operation.
Is it clear?
I think I hope I am able to clarify you the proper cache operation and how this atomicity works, this
atomic integer.
So this if you understand atomic integer, atomic, boolean, atomic long, you can practice it.
It is exactly the same.
Now let's see the concurrent collections.
So see concurrent collections.
I have already explained you that.
So this is, uh.
So you remember, right in the Java concurrency.
During Java, uh, collections video for each when I for each collections when I was, uh, sharing.
I have also told you that.
Okay, let's see this part.
Uh, here I told you, right.
For whatever the collections which we have seen, like priority queue, what is their respective threadsafe
version and its examples also, this is the respective Threadsafe version and its example.
So we have already covered this right.
But I just wanted to show you that for each of this we have already seen what are the Threadsafe version.
These are already threadsafe so there is no Threadsafe.
These are already threadsafe for rest of them.
I have already shared in the collection part what are the Threadsafe version?
But here I just wanted to pinpoint that.
So this all collections, these are their concurrent collections.
Alternative priority queue.
Priority blocking queue like this.
Right.
If you understand priority queue linked list, this is also exactly working the same.
But here I want to show you.
Show you that what actually they are using to make sure that it is concurrent.
So priority blocking queue.
Let's see that priority blocking queue.
So priority blocking queue when you are trying to add any item internally what is using reentrant law.
So it is using lock linked list uses concurrent linked dequeue.
So concurrent linked dequeue right.
So here when we are trying to add an item what it is doing is it here.
Here.
If you say there is no lock, then here you say that cash next.
So here it goes.
Inside it uses compare and swap.
So it uses compare and swap operation to bring the atomicity.
So this is lock free.
This is cash and operation.
This is a reentrant lock.
So you got it right.
So different collections.
There are concurrent collections.
Some uses lock free some uses some lock like synchronized reentrant lock.
But I think when you now look back and go in deep and try to practice, you will make sense.
Okay.
What is reentrant.
What is compare and swap operation.
Right.
How it helps to achieve us.
The concurrency even though there are not lock right.
So do practice it.
If you have any doubt, let me know.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Thread Pools in Java | ThreadPoolExecutor Framework | Multithreading ---

High Java thread pool.
Very, very important topic we are going to cover today.
And this topic is very important both from the interview perspective and your day to day work perspective
also.
So this is one of the interview question which has been shared by one of the engineer that in a thread
pool, why you have taken core pool size as two.
Why not 10 or 15 or another number?
What is the logic?
So I will tell you the complete question, right?
Uh, the candidate has been asked to create a thread pool, and this core pool size is the number which
we have to, uh, define in the thread pool executor.
So I'll tell you the complete question also.
And my solution also.
Right.
But before telling you the answer, we have to first understand what is thread pool.
And that's where today we are going to cover that from very basics.
Don't worry about that.
This questions will come back later.
Right at the end of this video.
You will I will solve that question.
So what is thread pool?
So understand let's see this three points.
It is a collection of threads also known as workers or known as worker thread, which are available
to perform the submitted tasks.
Right.
So what is first is that it is a collection of thread.
So this is let's say I have created a collection of threads thread one, thread two.
Let's say n threads.
Right?
How many number of thread you can configure whether five, ten, 21, how many threads you wanted in
a pool you can configure, but it's a collection of threads which are available to perform the submitted
task.
Once the task completed, worker thread gets back to the thread pool and wait for the new task to assign.
So what happens is whenever any task.
So these are the tasks, right?
Whenever any new task comes, a worker or thread has been assigned to that task.
So let's say that task one is going to be done by thread one.
Task five.
It's assigned to thread two.
So this is now busy.
This is now busy, right?
As soon as thread five is busy, thread one.
Thread five is busy.
Now, as soon as this thread completes its task, they will again available in the thread pool, right?
So now thread one and thread five again available and waiting to pick a new task.
Okay, so what we are doing is means we are reusing the threads.
Threads can be reused.
So what generally happen is you know that till now what we have seen is we have to create thread.
We have created thread, thread one, thread two, thread three.
Whatever the how many number of threads we wanted, we have to create our own threads by like we are
creating a new thread.
So we were creating the threads and you know that thread creation takes time while Why thread creation
takes time.
Because you know that certain memory space need to be allocated to thread.
Let's say that stack thread stack which is given for each thread.
So there are certain work, right, which need to be done when we create a thread.
So this is little time.
You can say that it takes some time, but with the thread pool you can say that the advantage is that
the threads can be reused like we have already created the threads, we have already created the threads
and we are just reusing it.
We are not creating new threads every time.
So I have already created this, let's say five threads.
I have already created this five threads.
Now any task is coming.
I don't have to create new thread, I just simply assign the thread one.
You do this task.
Hey, thread two you do this task.
So now you see that I can save some time.
Which time I can save thread creation time, right?
So means we are reusing the threads.
So this example here, if you see that when application submitting new tasks.
Right.
What would happen is.
So first it will see that is there any thread which can process this new task?
Is thread available.
Is thread available?
If yes.
If yes if thread is available then what would happen is whatever the task is there, it will assign
to that particular thread.
Let's say task one assigned to thread one.
Task two assigned to thread two.
Let now let's say task three is coming.
Now when task three is coming, let's say all the threads are busy.
We have, let's say only two threads, thread one and thread two.
We have only two threads and both the threads are now busy.
This is also busy.
This is also busy performing task one and task two.
Now task three is coming and there is no thread available.
What it will do is we will put into this queue.
Right.
So we will put the task three into the queue.
That.
So this is uh already been picked up by this thread.
So task three would be present into the queue.
Now as soon as any thread completed its task, it will come back to the pool.
So now thread one is available.
It's completed its task.
It will come back to the pool.
Now it will check in this queue.
Any task is pending.
Yes.
Task three is available in the queue.
So it will pick it up and start performing on that thread.
One is picking it up right.
So you got it in the queue.
Also involved in the thread pool which plays an important role.
So what is the advantage of thread pool?
You have till now seen that how we use to create thread and each thread has has a life cycle, you know.
Right.
We have created a we have understood the thread life cycle.
We have created new, then we have runnable running, then wait right and then like exit like end.
So each thread has a life cycle also.
Right.
So what are the advantages?
First of all thread creation time can be saved.
I told you that whenever we use to create a thread earlier.
Each time there, it takes some time to create this thread because there are certain operations need
to be done to create a thread like allocation of space.
What space like stack program counter.
These are specific for thread particular thread, right?
So you have to create memory for the stack.
You have to create a memory for the program counter.
You might have to define something.
So when each thread is created, space is allocated to it.
And this takes time.
With thread pool.
With thread pool this can be avoided by reusing the thread.
So this part, this advantage I think we have already discussed that in the thread pool.
You have already created the thread.
Now you don't have to with every request.
You don't have to create a new thread, you just simply use it.
So little bit performance increase by saving the thread creation time.
The second advantage is that overhead of managing the thread lifecycle can be removed if you are not
using thread pool on its framework.
I told you right, each thread has its own lifecycle.
Currently it's a new state.
Then it goes to runnable running state.
It might has to go to the wait and then come back to running.
And when everything is done you have to finish this thread.
So currently if you are not using any framework, you have to manage the thread.
You have to manage its lifecycle.
But with the thread pool and its framework, this is abstracted to you.
You don't have to do this.
Management executor framework will do for you.
So thread has different lifecycle like running, waiting, terminate, etc. and managing thread state
include complexity.
Like you have to make sure that this thread I have to terminate.
Now I have to wait it now.
But with thread pool all this management is abstracted to you, right?
So this is another advantage.
It comes.
And the third is that increase the performance right.
How it will increase the performance.
If you see that let's say you are not using thread pool and executor framework whenever any task coming.
Task one.
Task two.
Task 100.
What your code does is your code will create a new thread.
Thread one.
New thread.
Thread two.
New thread thread 100.
So now you don't have control over the thread, right?
Every time a task is coming you are creating a new thread.
So what would happen is you know that I have already explained that if there are more threads, means
context switching will happen because let's say there are only two CPU core CPU core one, CPU core
two.
So only these two CPU core have to process this all 100 threads.
So right.
So it's not like all 100 threads are running parallelly.
It's seems like a parallel but ultimately internally CPU.
What it does is context switching.
So first thread one.
Thread two is running.
Then it do context switch, then thread one, thread two is waiting and it is running.
Thread three.
Thread four.
So this is known as context switching.
So if more threads are there and you don't have control over the creation of thread.
Then it is possible that more context switching will happen, and you know that whenever the context
switch happen means CPU is idle that time.
Because context switching means you are saving the old data, bringing the new threads into the CPU,
and then start processing.
So during this context, switching CPU is idle.
So if you are creating more and more and more threads, it is a chance that more context switching time
get increased and there would be a wastage of CPU time and CPU instead of doing processing it, just
keep on doing context switching.
So we thread pool helps us to control the number of threads which we can create, which help us to make
sure that the context switching would be very less.
Or we can say that less as much as possible, which helps in more Processing time and less context switching
time.
Okay, so there is a framework available in Java in this package, Java.util dot concurrent package,
you will see a framework available.
So this is an interface top interface executor.
It has one method execute right.
So this is the interface.
This is again an interface which extend from this.
And it has more methods right.
So it manage.
So this has only execute method right okay.
You execute your task executor service has more methods like stop shutdown etc. like managing the thread
pool more better.
There can be more functionalities on a thread pool right.
So this executor service interface expose more methods here if you open.
Executor service.
It's a child of executor.
So executor has only one execute.
Right.
So it will just execute whatever the task.
Runnable task which you are assigning.
Then executor service provide some other functionalities apart from execute whatever it is extending
from the executor like shut down right.
Shut down now is shut down is terminated.
So there are lot of operations.
You can say that functionality has been added to this executor service to it and all the thread pool
executor.
These are the child classes.
These are not these are not interfaces.
These are classes.
Now this implements this executor service.
Then we have fork join pool.
This implements executor service.
Then there is another interface scheduled executor service.
This extended this provide a functionality of like running running a thread on a particular time scheduled.
We will come to this so we will see each one of them separately.
So today I will cover the thread pool executor.
Very very important.
Right.
Thread pool executor.
It helps to create a customizable thread pool.
How so.
Now let's first understand the process.
Or you can say that the flow.
Let's first understand the flow.
So let's say these are the tasks which is coming.
Let's say task one.
Task two.
Task three.
Task four.
Task five.
These are the tasks which are coming.
Two.
Our executor.
Which executor thread pool executor.
Thread pool executor.
So what?
First it will do.
Is it check?
Any thread is free in thread pool.
So now let's say that there is a pool here right?
Thread one, thread two.
Thread three.
Only three threads are there.
Five tasks are coming right?
So check any thread is free in thread pool.
So let's say task one is coming and there is a queue also.
Okay so task one is coming.
So this is coming first at T1 it check any thread is free in the thread pool.
Yes all three are free.
So let's say thread one is assigned to task one.
So currently this is not available.
Then task two is coming at time two.
Then it check any thread is free in the thread pool.
Yes.
So thread two is assigned the task two.
This is also now busy.
Then thread two is coming at time three.
Any thread is free in the thread pool.
Yes.
So thread three is assigned task three.
This is also got busy right?
So this is the let's say minimum number of thread.
I have put three.
So three threads would always be available right.
So now when the three task comes this three thread is assigned to this task.
Now task four is coming.
Now task four is coming at time four it check.
Hey any thread is free in the thread pool.
No, no thread is free in the thread pool.
What it will do, it will put into the queue.
So task four is put into the this one.
Now let's say task five is coming.
Hey any thread is free in this thread pool.
No?
Then task five is put here.
Similarly, let's say task six.
Task seven.
Task eight.
So this is the size I have given to queue 123.
12345.
So I have given the queue size five.
So all.
Now it is filled because no thread is available now.
45678.
Now let's say that task nine is coming.
Now it says that hey, any thread is free in the thread pool.
No.
All are busy.
Any space in the queue?
No.
All queue is also filled up.
Now, what should we do here?
Should we reject it?
No.
So now there is one more feature into the threadpool that.
So first feature I tell you that minimum number of thread.
So let's say minimum minimum thread number I have given three.
So that's why three was there initially.
There is one more field like maximum thread.
Maximum thread.
Let's say I have given five.
What does it mean that what is the maximum number of thread can be present in a pool at a time, right?
So now when this comes into the picture, when all the minimum threads which are present into the thread
pool first all are busy, they are still processing queue queue size.
Queue size was 512345.
This is also full.
Now when a task is coming it is not finding any free thread.
It is not finding any space in the queue.
What this executor framework will do.
It will see that hey, maximum thread is five and only three thread has been used, right?
So means I can create one more thread.
So what it will do is at it time it will create another thread.
Thread four and thread four would be assign this task nine right.
So this will not get rejected.
So thread four has been given task nine.
So this is also busy.
Now let's say task ten is coming.
What it will do first check any thread is free in the thread pool.
No.
All four threads are busy.
Can I put into a queue?
No.
Queue is also full now it will check what is the maximum thread I can have in a pool five.
And what is the number of pool threads I have in a pool right now?
Four so means I can create one more thread.
So it created a one more thread in a pool.
Thread five and that thread five will take care of task ten right now.
This is also get busy now.
Now what would happen is let's say task 11 is coming.
Now it will say that okay, all pools, all thread in a pool is busy.
What it will do.
Hey, can I put this task 11 in a queue?
No.
Queue is also full.
Then it checked.
Hey, what is the maximum thread size?
Thread pool size.
You have given five so means maximum.
I can have five threads in a pool.
How many?
I have 12345.
Hey means I have already created the five number of threads, which is the maximum number allowed in
a pool.
Means now I can't do anything.
I have to reject this task.
Reject the task here.
Okay.
Now what would happen is let's say thread three has finished.
This thread three has finished its task.
So thread three is now available.
So now thread three is available now.
So now as soon as thread three is available what it will do is it will check the queue.
Hey any task is pending in the queue.
Yes.
So it will pick one task from here.
Let's say thread three is now doing task four.
So this task has been removed from the queue and this is now busy again.
So this is how it does.
Okay I'll tell you.
I'll explain you more with this parameters, but wanted to show you the functionality of the thread
executor.
How the sequence of thread pool and the queue comes into the picture.
Okay, so we'll see one more time.
But first let's understand with this functionality.
Understand the thread pool executor.
Now I hope I am going slow not running fast right?
Okay, with the basic understanding of this, now let's see the thread pool executor constructor.
So here in the thread pool executor here if we see this is the constructor right.
So this is the constructor.
If you see that it has lot of parameters right.
So we will see what is the meaning or purpose of each parameter which we have to be clear very thoroughly.
Because this only these are the mostly the configuration which help us to create a thread pool.
So this is the thread pool executor.
If you create an object of this, this will help us to create a thread pool also.
So what is the first parameter we have is core pool size.
Core pool size means the number of threads are initially created and keep in the pool even if they are
idle.
So means if you have given this core pool size as three means in a thread pool you will always find
three thread thread one, thread two.
Thread three.
It creates three threads and put it into this thread pool.
Because this is the minimum, threads should be available in a thread pool and even if they are idle,
they are not processing anything.
They will keep on waiting here in the thread pool.
Right?
So this is core pool size.
Then there is another thing called this is not a parameter.
This is a you can say that a property which has been set on this object, I will tell you.
But there is something called a core thread timeout.
I will tell you that I told you that this whatever the core pool size you have tell, it will create
that thread into the pool.
And even if they are idle.
But if your requirement is that hey, if they are idle, let's say for a specific Pacific time.
Then remove them, then delete those.
Or you can say that terminate those thread.
Right.
So how we can tell this with this true false Boolean flag.
Allow core thread timeout.
If this property is set to true, then idle thread kept alive till time specified by keepalive time.
So there is a parameter called Keepalive time.
So this is only being used when this is set to true.
If this is set to true then it will check the keepalive time.
Right.
And any thread, any thread which is idle for this much of time.
After this much of time, that thread will get removed.
Let's say keepalive time I have given, let's say five second.
So any thread which is idle for five second till five second, it will be alive.
But if a thread is idle for more than five second, this will get terminated.
Only and only if this is set to true.
Even if you have set this five second.
But this is by default is false.
And if you are haven't, make it true.
This parameter is of no use.
All three threads will remain active even if they are idle, right?
Even if you have defined Keepalive time as five second, even if they are idle for 52nd one minute,
it will not get eliminated.
Why?
Because you haven't made this field to true and by default this is false.
So whatever the object you will create it.
So on that object you have to set this parameter to true.
If you want that only this much time a thread which are idle should be alive.
After that it should get eliminated.
So keep alive time.
You know that thread which are idle, get terminated after this time, and this will be only used if
this is set to true.
Then we have this unit time unit.
So here this keep alive time you are giving like long.
It's like you can give 510.
Now what does it mean five second five five hours five minutes.
What does it.
So in the time unit we can tell.
Right.
So here the time unit is for the keep alive time.
Whether it's a millisecond you are selling whether second or hours or etc..
What.
Okay.
So if you're telling keep alive time is five because it's a long then time unit will say that okay.
You can tell minute okay five minute.
So after five minute if any thread is idle and if this property is set to true that thread will be eliminated.
Okay.
So time unit is also clear.
now comes to the maximum pool size.
So maximum pool size.
I think with the above this one, you already know that when the maximum pool size comes into the picture,
right?
Just for a quick overview, again let's say you have a.
Queue of size four right.
And you have a thread pool with like minimum three and let's say maximum maximum pool size I am telling
five okay.
So I have already told you the flow that uh, first let's say when I tell minimum three means thread
pool will already keep three threads into here into thread pool, the whatever the minimum number you
will get this many threads will already active, present, already created and present.
So generally what happens is whenever any task is coming.
Task one what it will do is it will first check.
Hey, any thread is free.
It will yes assign to it.
So task one, thread one like this.
Then task two is coming.
Assign.
Task three is coming assigned.
So all threads are busy.
Now.
When task four is coming it won't just go and create new thread.
First it go and first.
If queue is empty it will put here.
Task four.
Task five is coming.
All threads are busy.
It won't create new thread.
First we we can create two more threads in a thread pool, right?
Because maximum we can create five threads in a pool.
But first it don't create.
It will first utilize.
Try to put in a queue thread five thread, task five, task six, task seven.
And when task eight is coming now it say that all three threads are busy.
All queue is also full Now it can't accommodate task eight now at that time only it will check.
Okay, maximum.
I can have five threads in a pool.
I have only three.
Let's create another thread and assign this task to it.
Right.
If task nine is coming, all threads are busy.
No space in the queue.
Then only it goes at okay.
Maximum five I can have in a thread pool I have four.
Let's create thread five and assign that thread to this one.
Now task ten is coming.
All five threads are busy, all queue is full.
It will check what is the maximum thread I can have in a pool five okay already five are there then
I can't do anything.
Reject it.
So this is generally the flow.
But now one question you can ask.
To me, that is why we first put into the queue.
Why not We like when the task four is coming.
Why we first put into the queue when all three are busy?
Why not?
We first create a four?
Because it is allowed, right?
Maximum we can have five.
So we can easily create it and assign to that.
Why we have to put into queue.
Otherwise it is just increasing the waiting time, right?
It can be instantly processed.
This task.
Task four can be instantly processed.
We can just create a new thread and start processing it.
Why?
We have to put in queue and when any thread is finished, it will take read it from the queue and then
process it.
So this is how it has been done.
But my reasoning is that why it is done?
Because.
So now let's say that this is I'm telling you why it might have done.
You have thread one, thread two.
Thread three.
Minimum is three.
Maximum is five.
So now let's say thread one is busy.
Thread two is busy.
Thread three is busy.
Thread four is coming.
Uh, no.
Task four is coming now.
When task four is coming, you you.
Let's say that what we wanted is.
Hey, all thread three is busy.
Maximum thread I can have is five.
Instead of putting into the queue, let's create another thread.
Thread four right and assign this task to it.
Right?
And let's say if another task is coming, task five we will see that hey, it's only four thread maximum.
I am allowed five.
Let's create another thread and assign this task to it.
Now I'll tell you like why we don't do this?
Because let's say if thread four and thread five completed its task, it will not get eliminated.
It will come back to this pool and stay.
Keep on waiting for the more tasks.
So now your thread pool will be like kind of a full like you have all the threads created, right?
And whatever the minimum pool size I have created, I have created in a mind that most average on an
average, on an average, this many threads are sufficient to fulfill most of the requests.
And if any peak is coming, then I have defined a queue that okay, if any extra requests are coming,
let me put into the queue.
And with this three thread they will come and process the request from the queue.
But most of the time on an average this three thread is sufficient, right?
But now if we are saying that okay, every time a new request comes, if all are busy, instead of putting
in a queue, if you create a new thread, what we are doing is we created a new thread, but once it
is completed, this thread and thread four will again come back to the thread pool and sit.
Now on an average only your thread is required.
Minimum three thread is sufficient, so thread and thread four is.
Keep on idle is waiting.
Keep on idol.
So that's one of my reasoning, is that that's why we first try to utilize a Q, right?
And with this minimum number itself, minimum thread itself, we will first try to complete all the
requests with the help of Q and this minimum threads.
This is one of the reason why it has been designed that way.
Okay.
First whatever the minimum threads is used, if that is full, try to put in Q because that's where
our most of the use cases get fulfilled.
Only in certain scenario when the sudden peak comes, all our pool size finished, all our Q finished,
then only go and utilize the max thread because we don't want to reject the request.
Okay.
So max pool size is clear, and I have already told you that this is applicable for The whole thread
pool, whatever the threads are there in the thread pool.
If this allow core thread timeout is set to true, then it will check keepalive time.
If keepalive time you have given five minutes, then it will wait for five minutes and after five minutes
it will check.
Any thread is free for more than five minutes.
If yes it will terminate those then worker queue then this work queue are blocking queue, right?
I have already told you this queue is used to hold tasks before they got picked up by the worker thread.
So this is of two type of bounded queue.
Unbounded queue.
Bounded queue means queue with fixed capacity like an array blocking queue like here.
In the above example I have created a queue of size four.
So this is a bounded queue.
Unbounded queue means there is no fixed capacity like linked blocking queue.
Any number of tasks can be put in a queue like a linked list, right.
So that is known as unbounded.
Generally this one is preferred.
Bounded queue.
Right.
Unbounded queue.
It's generally should be avoided.
And bounded queue is mostly preferred because we want full control.
How much request can be put in a queue.
Right.
And here task is capped and your worker thread will pick from this task as soon as they get free.
So the task get picked up by the worker thread from here.
Okay, so this is also clear.
Then we have thread factory.
What does thread factory means?
So thread factory means it gives you a.
You can say that it provide you an interface right where you can give custom thread name, thread priority,
uh, thread priority and the daemon flag.
So let's say you want to give a thread name, because you know that this framework itself will create
the thread pool.
Executor itself will create a thread.
So it will give the thread name of its own.
It gives the thread priority of its own.
And if you want to thread daemon or not, by default it is false.
It will give its on its own.
But if you want to override that property, you can provide your own thread factory, right?
And you can create tell like what is the thread name I want to give?
What is the thread priority?
I want to give whether this thread is a daemon flag daemon or not, you can set those right.
We will see an example.
Rejected execution handler.
This last parameter.
What is this like?
I told you that queue is full.
All queue is full.
Thread pool has full thread one.
Thread two thread.
Three Thread four.
Thread five.
Minimum is three.
Maximum is five.
So all five maximum has been created and it is full.
All are busy.
Now any thread is coming.
New task is coming.
Now it will see that hey, any task any thread can can is free.
No.
Any queue space is there?
No.
Can I create a new task?
Can I create a new thread?
No.
Already five threads are created.
It is maximum.
Then this has to be rejected.
Now what to do?
How to handle this rejected task.
So that's where the handler comes into the picture.
So it is a handler for the task that cannot be accepted by the thread pool.
Generally what we do is we do logging here in this case that this task is rejected.
So we can put a log here for debugging purpose.
But if you have another functionality you can do that.
But there are different.
These are the four types of handler already exist in the Java, which you can use, or we can create
our own.
I will show you how to create our own.
So let's say this is the one a bot policy rejected execution handler.
This is the abort policy.
What it will do is it will simply throw an exception.
Whenever any task is rejected, it will throw an exception that hey rejected execution exception.
This comes then there is something called discard policy.
Let's see this discard policy that silently discard the rejected without throwing any exception.
If you are using this handler here in this, uh, request, and any task is rejected, it is.
You won't know, right?
It just simply discarded it.
Callers run policy.
What it will do is that execute the rejected task in the caller's thread Thread that attempted to submit
the task.
So I told you write task is submitted.
Application.
Submit the task.
Somebody submit the task.
That also might be running in one thread let's say.
By default this main thread.
So some thread is running.
Which submit the task to this thread pool executor.
Right.
So if thread pool executor cannot take this handle this new task.
And if you have defined this rejected execution as a handler, then on this thread it will try to run
this task.
Executed the rejected task in the caller thread.
Thread that attempted to submit the task.
Then we have discard oldest policy.
What does it mean?
Discard the oldest task in the queue.
To accommodate the new task.
So if you have used this, what it will do is that it will see that hey, what is the oldest task in
this queue?
It will discard that and put this new task in it.
So there are different types of you can say that implementation how you want to handle the rejected
task.
Okay.
So this is the thread pool executor.
Mostly you can say that the configuration which is required right.
And you got it right.
What is the flow when it comes.
So this is the life cycle of a thread pool executor.
After that we will see an example.
Right.
That would become more clear.
So first phase of a thread pool executor is running.
So in the running executor is in running state means submit method will be used to add new task means
it can accept new task.
When the thread pool executor is in running state means you can add new tasks.
Task one.
Task two.
Task three.
It can accept, right?
Then there is another phase called shutdown.
Let's say that if on this running, if you have called the shutdown.
So there is a method called shutdown.
What it will do is shutdown is now executed.
Do not accept any new task but continue to process the existing task.
So now let's say that task one.
Task two is already running by thread one.
Thread two.
But when shutdown is called now in thread thread executor, it will not accept any new task.
Let's say task three.
It want to submit now.
It will not accept because now the thread executor is in shutdown mode.
It will not accept any new thread, but it will let this to task to continue to process it.
And once this two task complete, done it slowly move to the terminated state where all the threads
will get eliminated.
Then there is a, uh.
A status called stop.
This is again a life cycle, which is, you can say that the force shut down and there is a method called
shut down.
Now.
So what it will do is it will stop the executor to accept any new task.
Plus, it also makes forcefully stop the existing threads which are running and move to the terminated
state where all threads will get eliminated.
So you got the difference between shut down and stop.
Shut down will only stop accepting the new task, but allow this already tasks which are running let
them complete and then move to terminated after they successfully completed stop will forcefully stop
accepting the new task, plus also stop the existing which are running and then move to the terminated
At once it is terminated.
Done are the life cycle of the thread pool is done.
All the threads are eliminated.
Everything is done right.
There is no way back and there is a method called is terminated, which you can use to check whether
the thread pool executor terminated or not.
Okay, so till now we have seen the thread pool executor and its configuration values.
Now let's implement one example out of it.
Okay I will let's first implement it.
Then I will show you here right.
And our agenda would be to validate our understanding or our understanding would be that.
So this is what we will create.
So this is the thread pool which we wanted with minimum uh let's say we'll create uh two.
Right.
Uh, maximum.
I will create, let's say, uh, three or let's say maximum.
I will create four.
Queue size.
I will create, let's say for example one only or let's say 201.
Right.
And how many tasks?
Task one.
Task two.
Task three.
Task four four tasks are coming.
Let's say.
So use case one.
So what should be the expected behavior.
So we will see that one.
So let's first code for this one.
Then we will do the dry run and see the expected behavior and run it.
So let's run this uh let's first create the code.
This is the main method.
Let me zoom it a bit more.
Okay.
Shall I zoom it more?
This is okay, right?
Let me zoom it more in case.
Okay.
So what we wanted, we first want to create a thread pool executor.
Object thread pool executor.
Uh, this is my executor.
Uh, let's create a thread pool executor constructor.
Now, in the constructor, these are all things which we have to design.
Minimum core pool size.
We wanted two.
Maximum pool size for for.
Keep alive.
Uh, let's say yes.
I want to keep alive, uh, for, let's say ten, but it should be.
I want to keep it for minutes.
Let's say that time unit is I want to give minutes.
Then I have to define a blocking queue of size two.
So I am creating new.
Array blocking queue of size two.
Thread factory and rejected execution handler.
So yes I want to define.
So let's have this first define our own thread factory.
Let's first so class my custom.
Thread factory.
Implements thread factory.
So this is an interface.
So I have to implement this method.
Okay.
So either is like I need to define my own custom factory or I can use which is available in this one
default set factory.
But for this demo I am showing a custom thread factory.
So I have to create one thread new thread and write whatever the runnable task.
This thread has to run that.
Thread, but I want to set another properties like thread dot set priority.
I want to set its thread priority as normal priority.
And also I want to make is is daemon uh daemon false?
It is not a daemon.
I just want to show you this is the by default actually even because even in the default, uh, thread
factory, this is it is used.
But I want to showcase that in the custom.
You can change this value and return the thread.
So I have created a thread which will perform whatever the runnable tasks, whatever the tasks it would
be assigned.
But I have you can define the thread dot set name.
You can set the name also for the thread which you wanted.
So I want this custom thread.
Right.
And similarly the last object is rejected execution handler.
So here if you see that there are already existing uh thread pool abort policy, discard oldest discard
policy.
Right.
I can use this one.
This is just like handler.
Reject the task silently.
It just rejected silently.
It doesn't do anything.
If I use.
Discard oldest policy.
What it will do, It will check from the queue.
It will pull it first because at the front, this is the oldest star.
So it will pull it first and then it will execute this one.
It will add it right.
And if you go into the execute part you will see the three step.
First step is if thread is available assign the task to it.
Second is if all threads are busy inside a pool, see if a task can be successfully queued.
If a task cannot be successfully queued, then the third step.
If it cannot queue task, then we try to add a new thread because maximum.
Let's say if there is still a maximum we can create.
If that is also not possible, then only reject.
That's what we have seen till now okay.
So this is the discard orders policy.
But let's say we want to create our own.
So I am creating my own let's say class.
Custom.
Handler implements this.
So this is an interface I have to implement the method.
Let's say I want to log it.
So here I'm doing System.out.println.
Task rejected.
Right.
So I can have this I have a.
This is the task only right.
And this is the executor which try to perform this task which doesn't have.
So I can use this information.
Ah dot two string.
What is the name and all.
You can print that one right.
For your debugging purpose, you can take out the information from this one and use this part thread.
Executor.
What is the executor name?
Group name thread name.
So you can add that right.
So these are all the methods which are available.
So you can put this two string here.
So I want to use my.
New custom reject handler.
So this is the executor which I created.
Okay.
Now I am doing.
I equals to zero I less than.
Or let's say I want to create four tasks right.
I want to create four tasks.
So that's what we are trying to do here.
So threadpool minimum configuration I have.
Tell maximum configuration I have tell the queue size I have tell and I have tell the.
This are the custom factory for the name and this one.
But this I have tell.
Now I have to Submit this.
Right.
Executor dot.
Submit this.
Submit takes the runnable like and you know how to create runnable task.
I can use this lambda expression.
Right.
So now I am creating this, uh, let's say that this is the task which has to be performed by a thread,
uh, let's say system dot out dot println.
Task.
Let's say this is the task.
This is the task which is getting processed.
Task.
Processed by what is the thread.
Which is going to which is processing it.
I'm just printing that.
Let's say this the thread.
And just to simulate that this task takes certain time, I am sleeping this thread for let's say five
second And this I need to put in try catch block.
Okay, so now what I am doing is I am submitting this task.
What is the task?
This you know how already how to create a.
There are two ways to create a task right through implement and through extend.
So I am creating a runnable task here.
So because it accept a runnable task.
So you can create a runnable task using by creating a separate class or through lambda expression itself.
Because this is your functional interface.
That's why you should be already familiar with this.
Now we have already covered this, so I have just make a five second slip to make sure that yes, something
is working.
Right.
Uh, and then printing out that yes task processed by this thread.
Okay.
Now how many threads I have created for how many, uh, how many tasks I have created for.
So for tasks I am submitting.
So task one here.
So task one is submitting.
So now what would happen is you have a thread executor.
Task one.
Task two.
Task three.
Task four.
So for task I have called submit submit submit submit right.
And this thread pool executor have two threads minimum.
So we have told two as a minimum right.
So it will have thread one here, thread two here.
Right.
And what is the queue size two.
Zero one.
This is the queue.
Q and what is the maximum it can create for now we want to verify that what should be the when if I
run it and in the finally and after once everything is completed, we have to make it shut down.
Shut down means thread should also get eliminated after this one.
Now what should be the behavior?
Let's say task one is coming.
So thread one, thread one or let's say this thread zero, thread one.
Like how it generally give thread zero, thread one two threads.
Right.
So thread zero is assigned task one.
Busy.
Now this task is coming.
Thread one is assigned task two.
This is also busy now.
Now task three is coming.
Now what it will do is no, it No, it will not create new thread.
Yeah, I can have four threads in this thread pool, but it will first try to put in queue.
So it will put here thread three.
Because both threads are busy because I have kept five.
Second are sleep right.
So they are still processing then thread four is coming, both the threads are still busy.
It will be put here and after they finished working so they will again goes back to the pool.
Now they are available now the same threads thread zero only will do.
Let's say task three thread one only will do task four.
So only these two threads will take care of all these four requests.
No new thread will be created.
Let's first see that one.
I am running it off.
Task processed by thread one.
Thread zero so two threads has been created.
Thread zero.
Thread one.
So two task has been created.
So this remaining two threads has been put into a pool write queue.
And once this two threads got free they only pick the remaining two tasks from the queue.
See thread zero, thread one only, so only maximum two threads created which was initially set right.
So this code is working as expected.
But what would happen if I add task five here?
Now when the task five is added, what would happen here?
Now?
What should be the behavior now?
So task one is busy.
By thread zero.
Task two is busy by thread one.
Task three is put into the queue.
Task four is put in the queue.
Task five comes when task five comes, can any of the thread pool can be used?
No.
Thread zero is thread one is busy.
Can I put in a queue?
No.
Then it goes and see that hey, can I create a new thread?
Yes for thread can be there.
Thread pool has only two.
You can create new thread.
So new thread would pick tasks your five right?
And then this any of the thread which get completed it will goes back to the pool and do this thread.
Like maybe thread zero will put task three from the queue and thread one goes back and pick four.
But here if you see that this new thread should have been created.
So now let's simulate this and create five tasks.
Run it.
So.
Thread zero.
Thread one.
Thread two.
and so thread zero, thread one, thread two and two tasks are waiting, so any of these two threads
will come back and pick this up.
This is working as expected right.
So our understanding is correct right.
So first it try to use whatever the threads are there in the pool.
If it is all are busy it will first put into the queue.
If that is also full then only it will go and try to create a thread.
If we are allowed, maximum is not reached.
But what if maximum is also reach.
So maximum four and six.
So let.
Let's say if I create seven.
So at max all four thread it will create five six.
So six thread it will do.
And whenever the seventh request will come one will fail, one will be rejected.
And once it rejected it will print this.
Let's do this.
Task rejected.
One is rejected.
And rest is processing.
How?
Let's see that its functionality now okay.
So let's simulated it.
So here initial word two.
Thread one.
Thread two, thread zero, thread zero, thread one and task six.
Task seven I am submitting okay, so first task one comes thread zero.
Pick task one.
This is busy.
Task two coming thread one.
Pick task two this is busy.
Task three is coming it put into here Task four is coming.
It is put over here.
Task five is coming.
This is busy.
Queue is full.
It will create one thread.
So create one thread.
Thread two.
Now doing task five.
This is now busy.
Thread six is coming.
All threads are busy.
Queue is full.
It create one more thread.
Thread three and it is assigned this task six.
This is now busy.
Thread seven is coming.
All four thread is busy.
Queue is full.
Can I create more thread?
No.
123.
All four threads maximum has been reached.
This has been.
Task seven has been rejected.
Right?
And after that any of the thread which come back to the pool, they will pick let's say thread zero.
Go and pick the task three, thread one.
Go and pick the task four.
Right.
So generally what this is one task is rejected.
The task which is rejected is this one right.
And there should be 01234 threads.
Different four threads.
Thread one.
Thread zero.
Thread one, thread two.
Thread three four different threads created and two tasks were there in the queue.
So any two threads which come first into the pool again they will pick it from there.
So thread zero, thread one.
Pick the two tasks from the queue.
Got it.
So this example is here right?
So you understand what is the purpose of pool when the maximum pool size keep alive right.
So here I can to use this keep alive.
You know that it it will only be used when executor dot allow core timeout to true.
Then only this keep alive would be used for after ten minutes.
If any thread which is idle into a thread pool, it will now get eliminated with this.
Okay, so thread pool creation is clear.
If this is clear now let's come to the interview question why you have taken core pool sizes two.
Why not ten?
Why not 15 or any other logic?
Okay, so you now understand that interviewer might have asked the engineer to design a or implement
the thread pool executor.
So engineer might have done the same thing.
It might have created a thread pool executor for the question and they have picked any random number.
Let's say I'm creating a minimum two maximum four.
But now that's where the follow up question comes.
Why four y2?
Why four?
Why not?
I create here 20.
Why not?
I create here ten.
Why you have taken two.
What is the reasoning behind taken certain numbers?
So the question is what is the reasoning behind to decide what core pool size should be minimum and
maximum?
So again this is my theory and my answer.
This is very subjective question.
Lot of different engineers might have different answer.
But I will tell you generally the thread pool minimum and maximum size are depend upon various factors
like CPU core.
Very important factor you know right.
Why CPU core is important.
I told you in a start that if you have only two CPU core, core one, core two, and if you create 100
thread thread one, thread two, thread 100, you know that most of the time they will spend.
Just do context switching.
Right?
because only maximum two threads can be run in parallel.
Right after that, CPU has to do context switching and pick another two threads into here.
Thread three, thread four.
But it has to save the thread one, thread two till where it has run, it has to save it.
So there is a lot of context switching happens.
So we this is become very important CPU core.
We have to consider this.
Second is JVM memory.
You know that everything over program which runs in a JVM memory.
JVM has different memory like heap and the thread is thread.
Get certain memory like stack space.
And there also get certain like a program counter like and other spaces.
So there is a space allocated for each purpose.
So we can't just create as much as thread as possible because JVM lets say if you have given two GB
then you have a limited resource.
Now you even let's say your core of so many cores you can do very fast processing.
Your cores are super fast, but your memory is only two GB.
Then definitely you can't create 100 threads here.
There is no space at all to keep it.
So this also comes into the picture.
Important.
Then you have to consider the task nature, whether it's a CPU intensive or IO intensive.
So you know that there are two types of tasks CPU and IO intensive.
CPU intensive means they want more CPU time, more processing time, and IO means that, uh, let's
say you want to write something into, uh, you want to read something from the DB?
There is a DB call or there is an external call, so thread is idle during the I o call.
So when thread is idle, it is better to have more threads so that CPU should not wait.
CPU can just do contact switch.
Let it wait.
Which thread is waiting for input output operation by the time CPU can process some other thread.
So if it is CPU intensive less thread should be there.
If it is IO intensive, more thread we should be keeping.
Why?
Because all the if it is IO intensive operations means your thread will go idle whenever IO is requested.
I o operation is requested.
So CPU can pick another thread.
So this is generally also has to be considered.
What is the nature of the task, whether it is a CPU intensive?
If it is a CPU intensive, the number of threads should be less.
If it is an IO intensive number of threads can be more concurrency requirement that, yes, I want a
high concurrency, low concurrency, medium concurrency memory required to process a request.
Now let's say that a one post request is coming if that required ten MB to process it, because when
Post request is coming, it loads so many data from DB, so many data from service call let's say,
and it store it into in-memory where heap and heap is also has a limited space, right?
So if one request takes ten MB.
Now let's say that I can have 1000 threads.
If 100 threads accepted this Post request and each request takes ten MB, do you have sufficient memory
here in the heap?
So that also we have to consider that the memory required to process a request that much heap can support
or not?
Right.
So and throughput like how fast you can process the request.
So here if you see that we have to and there could be etc. there could be more.
But these are the major.
You can say that factors on top of my mind, which has to be configured before we comes to this minimum
and maximum size.
Okay.
Now let's say that okay let's consider some estimate for it.
And let's come to this one.
Okay.
Before I consider the estimate like okay these are eight core 32 core 64 core.
And come up with a number I will want to tell you certain formulas.
So there is a formula available here to find out the maximum number of threads.
But again this formula is not full proof.
This doesn't even consider all the factor.
This is just give you what is the maximum you can have, right?
Or what is at least if it will give you a start point, you can say that.
So what does it say?
That the number of CPU core into one plus request waiting time divided by processing time.
Actually, this formula is nothing but focusing on this two task nature and the CPU core, right.
And it also considers throughput.
So let's say that my CPU core is 64 core 64 into one plus.
Now what is actually we are doing here I told you right CPU intensive and IO intensive.
So request waiting time.
So let's say if it is a CPU intensive request, waiting time would be very less and processing time
is more if it is IO intensive.
Request waiting time would be more, processing time would be less.
So you should be clear like what type of operation you are doing.
So let's say I am assuming that my CPU core on my server is let's say 64.
Request waiting time is 50 milliseconds divided by processing time is 100.
So you can say that it is more CPU intensive than IO.
So IO is less, CPU processing time is more.
So you can estimate you can discuss with the interviewer that what should be the.
It is high CPU intensive.
If it is high CPU intensive mean, you can say that this request waiting time divided by process time
would come near to zero, right?
So here, if you see that this ultimately give you around 64 only.
So means since I took as a CPU intensive that 100 millisecond it spent to processor time 50 millisecond
half it spent in IO processing.
So it comes something 64 point something.
So I have taken an express 64.
So number of CPU core which can be required.
Uh is that 64.
Can we can have a maximum number of this threads.
Right.
So let's say you have 64 CPU core.
Core one core two core three core 64, if it is a high CPU intensive task, means it is better to have
this many threads itself so that they can run parallel.
There would be very less context switching or no context switching at all.
Right.
Because it's a high CPU intensive, everybody wants CPU time.
So it's better to have the number of threads equals to what the core you have.
And this formula is also give you the the same thing if the whatever the core you have into one.
Plus if it is high CPU intensive, this is will give you around near to zero.
Let's say waiting time is only two millisecond and processing time is 30 milliseconds.
Out of 32, only two is waiting time, 30 is processing time.
So it is come very equivalent to zero.
So how many threads you can have is number of CPU core.
But is this the correct solution.
Right.
Okay.
We have come up with the number of threads.
But does it considering the memory know this formula.
Do not even consider the memory.
Now we have to go to the step two.
This formula does not consider the memory yet.
Now let's estimate the JVM.
Now let's say that I have given JVM two GB space.
Now in JVM there are multiple things required.
Heap I give one GB.
There is a code cache space where the code has been kept.
128 MB.
Let's say JVM required some other, uh, tasks and they required.
I have kept 256 MB for JVM overhead.
We don't know what task JVM does, right?
Not in our control, but it required a space for that.
Let's give 256 MB out of it.
So how much space left?
Let's see that.
So one GB 1000.
Let's say that 1000 MB plus 128 MB plus 256 MB.
Right.
Plus x equals to two GB JVM space.
Let's say 2000 MB right.
So how much it will come your.
So it would be let's say 300, 400 I think around 1500.
Let's say this is consumed.
So 500 MB left.
So there might be a calculation mistake I'm just taking estimate.
Just guessing.
So this let's say 500 MB left.
So out of this 500 MB, you know that we can now can be accommodate for thread.
Now for each thread you need to create a stack.
You need to create a register.
And there are other things which thread is stored.
So for one thread you need let's say five MB.
Let's say two MB.
You have given for stack, right?
One MB for this.
So let's say one thread takes five MB and we have 500 MB left.
So how many threads we can create maximum here in this space which is left is 100 let's say 100 threads
we can create.
Okay.
So now we got another part like okay.
With this formula we know that 64 thread is good to go.
But this doesn't even consider the memory.
But here we have considered the JVM memory.
JVM tells that okay, maximum 100 threads, we can create this much space.
JVM can create because one thread create five MB.
We have 500 MB left in the JVM, so 100 threads.
Let's say we can create, but can.
Is this again a good number?
Like this.
Many threads actually can work together.
Now we have to consider this memory required for process to request.
Now let's say that one request required ten MB because it has to load data from DB, it has to load
from.
It has to make external call load data.
From there.
Let's say that it want to store certain ten MB of data in at a time, and that where that would be stored
into the heap.
Now, if you are saying that if 100 threads are created, if 100 threads are created, and each thread
process one request and one request.
Take ten MB.
How many space is required?
1000 MB let's say one GB so means it required full heap space.
Your heap would be full.
That is risky again.
So we can say that we can put certain buffer and we can use let's say 60% or 70% of heap because it
might we might need a heap for some other task also.
So let's say we can create 60 thread so 60 into ten MB 600 MB at a time.
This memory can be used of a heap.
It's okay.
We have 1000 MB in heap.
If you create 60 threads 600 MB would be used.
Okay, so this number I can say that yes, it is safe to use 60% of the heap memory for the threads.
So what is the maximum thread I can create is 60 right.
Based on the memory constraint.
And this formula says that okay you can maximum use 64.
So that's where I can say that okay minimum I can give 60.
Maximum I can give 64 or around to it let's say 70.
And then there I can do monitoring.
And there are different tools to monitor like profiling tools are there now.
But what I meant to say now you have to do iterative monitoring, right.
You have to perform load testing with this number and say that yes, this number is fine or not and
optimize this number.
But this is just one way to at least answer that.
Yes, we have to consider all this like we have considered CPU core and the task nature.
And then we have come up with one number.
But this number doesn't even consider memory, right?
So if you consider the memory heap memory and the JVM memory like what is the space is available for
the threads, then based on that you will again get what is the maximum?
What is the maximum you can create.
And based on those number you can define your minimum and maximum.
And then you can tell that I can do iterative and load testing and refine these numbers okay.
So I think today's session is very big and this is very important topic.
It's interesting also.
But these are the next I will cover again an important part.
But do check out this video again.
If it is not clear or ping me we can discuss more and do practice it.
Also man like code it out right and practice this thread pool.
Very very important.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java8 CompletableFuture | Future & Callable | Multithreading in Java ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
In the previous session we have seen Threadpool thread pool executor.
Right.
Very important topic.
Today I am going to cover another very important topic.
And you can see that it's a follow up of thread pool executor.
So future callable and completable future.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So this is the example which I have written here exactly the same which we have seen in the previous
video.
So I have created a thread pool executor.
Right.
And I am submitting a task to the thread pool executor.
Right.
So we know that it will create a new thread and the the main thread or the caller will continue processing
it.
Very simple.
So thread pool executor from its pool of threads will assign one thread, will create one thread.
are not create thread is already created in the pool.
Right.
So it will use one thread and start performing this task.
Right.
So this is our base understanding.
Now one question should comes to your mind that hey Shreyansh, what if caller wants to know the status
of the thread, whether it's completed or it failed or some any output has come.
So here the caller is let's say the main thread.
So this is started and it created a new task which is doing by thread one.
Let's say this is the submitted a new task.
This is an async task which is performing by thread one.
So main thread will continue processing it right?
It will not wait for this thread to complete.
But now let's say that at future if this main thread or you can say that the caller want to know the
status of this task, whether it's completed or it is failed, or is there any exception or is there
it has generated some output.
Then what is the output?
How do we how it will get to know currently here if you see that we are not holding any references.
So there is no way this main thread would be able to know this status, right?
So that's where the future comes into the picture.
So here if you see the submit, what is the return type of the submit is future.
Don't worry about this question mark and all.
I will cover everything.
But whenever we call submit what is the return type future.
So we can create a future object and hold the reference there.
And using that future object we can know the status.
Okay, so now let's now we know that.
What is what?
Why the future is needed.
What actually we wanted.
We wanted to know the status of the thread which is running in async mode by some other thread.
So what does future will do?
So future is an interface which represents the result of the async task.
It allows you to check if computation is completed, get the result, or take care of any exception
if any.
Right.
So now again this is a main thread.
It will create a new thread here performing some task.
But now here I will have future object.
So main has this future object.
Now it is start working it.
This main has also start working concurrently.
But in future it can use this future object.
And there are several methods I Methods.
I will explain you this all this method.
Using this method, it can get to know whether this task which is performing by this another thread
one is it completed or finished or failed or any output comes.
What is that output?
Okay, so that is the purpose of future.
Let's see this example.
So I have created a thread pool executor.
Similar no change.
Now I am submitting a task to a pool.
Again this is how we have done seen already.
Write a new thread would be created which would be not new thread would be created.
It will pick from this pool executor.
So the pool has one thread in the pool, so it will use that thread and start executing it right.
So let's say t one is working on it.
But here this is the difference.
Now I am storing the future object, right?
Again, don't worry about this wild card.
Right.
I will tell you why.
What?
All things we can put here.
But as of now, what?
You have to be clear that whenever we submit a task to a thread pool executor, it returns this future
object reference.
Right?
So we can store it.
Now your main thread later on you.
You can use this future object to know this thread status, whether it is done or not, whether it is
there any exception or not.
What is the output?
Okay.
Now there are so here.
If you see that inside this future right there are five methods one, two, three, four, five.
So very very simple methods are available inside this future object.
What all things we can know about this thread.
So one thing is cancel if main want to cancel the execution of this thread so it can call obj dot cancel
true.
So what it's doing is on this future object.
It has set this put interrupting this execution of this thread.
Right.
So it attempts to cancel the execution of the task.
Async task.
So it can return false.
The output of this method can return false if the task cannot be canceled.
And what is one of the reason task cannot be canceled?
What if task is already completed?
So if task is already completed, then it will return false means it is not able to cancel it.
But if task is in progress or it is waiting and you have called this method, it might get interrupted
and it get canceled.
And once this task get canceled, it might return true.
Okay.
So there is another method called is cancel.
So this will return true or false if this task has been canceled or not.
Right.
So earlier command is to give the command that.
Yes.
Hey.
Cancel it.
This one is just to check whether the particular task is canceled or not.
Okay.
Returns true if the task was canceled before it get completed.
Normally.
Third method is is done.
So is done.
Is returns true if this task completed, completion may be because of anything normal completion.
Right?
Exception comes or it is canceled.
The task is done whether its task is completed through normally or through any exception.
Or is somebody interrupted it or somebody cancel it.
This task is done.
So that's it.
Return true in all these scenarios.
Okay, if the task is in progress, then only it will return false.
Then there is one method called get.
So what would happen is that inside this main method if you are calling get here object dot get.
Now what would happen is now this main thread will block and it will wait for this task to get completed
fully.
So whenever you are using Get method so the caller will wait for the completion of the task.
Which task?
Async task for the completion of the async task.
After the task completed, it retrieves the result if available, right?
So we will see an example I will also show you but in whenever you are using Get means you are blocking
the caller.
Now it will wait for that particular task to get fully completed, and once it is completed, then only
it will try to retrieve the result.
Okay, if there is any result or not, right.
And then it will further process.
So there is another variant called get and time.
Let's say you want, but here in the get method you are waiting indefinitely.
Let's say that async task or by a running by a particular thread is running for, let's say for 20 minutes.
Then you are blocking the main thread for 20 minutes, right?
But that's not what you wanted, right?
You want certain control so you can use this get.
Hey I maximum I can wait is three seconds.
So timeout is three unit I can give is let's say second.
So after three seconds.
So till whenever you are using wait get the caller will wait only for three seconds for that particular
thread to complete.
If in this timeout period task is not completed, it will throw timeout exception.
Then it's upon us whether we have to wait further or we have to log or we can proceed further.
Right.
So let's take a simple example.
So here I have created a thread pool executor.
Right.
Uh, and in the pool I am submitting one task.
So this is your thread one and this is your main thread.
So this is your main thread.
This is your T1 thread.
Let's say right from this pool.
It will create this T1 thread.
Now when I'm submitting it I have also stored the reference of it.
Don't worry about this question mark this wild card, I will tell you why we have to use, but just
see that whenever we are submitting a task to a thread pool executor, it returns the submit returns
this future object.
Now this future object.
Right?
And in this task I am waiting.
I am sleeping the thread seven seconds.
So we can say that this thread will take seven seconds to complete.
Let's say.
Right.
Seven seconds to complete.
It will not just complete as soon as possible.
Okay, now we have the future object.
Okay, so it will created the new thread and the main thread continues.
So this is main thread goes here.
So now main thread is checking on this future object.
Future object dot is done.
So future object is the reference of this task right.
So now it is checking.
Hey this task is completed.
Is it completed?
No, it takes seven seconds.
Right?
So currently this thread might be sleeping.
Right.
So it is is done.
No, it is not done yet.
So it will return.
No.
Here then main thread will come over here.
Main thread will check future object dot get.
Now I am doing get for I am waiting it only for two seconds.
Right?
I am not waiting indefinitely.
I am waiting only for two seconds.
So two seconds I am waiting so in dozen two seconds will this task get completed?
No, it takes some time.
So what it will throw is it will throw timeout exception so I can catch it.
I can print it.
So it will print this timeout exception happen.
So it will print this okay.
Now main will come here.
Now I am doing dot get.
Now dot get means this caller will wait for this task to get completed indefinitely till it is not completed.
So future object is this one.
This is the task associated with it.
So it will wait continuously.
Wait till it is not completed.
So it will wait six, seven, five, six, seven whatever it is required to this task to complete it.
And once it is completed, right again main is checking.
Now is done.
Future object is done.
Yes it will print.
Yes it is done right.
So here, if you see that this is a waiting period, so main will continuously.
So main will only go to the next point after this task is completed now.
So otherwise at this point itself it will wait.
It will not go to the next.
Only after this task is completed, then only it will goes to the next.
And when you are checking, is it done?
Yes, it will done.
Now the main will come here.
Is it cancelled?
No, it is not cancelled.
We haven't cancelled it.
It is completed naturally.
Right.
So this will print like this.
And one more thing will print here is that, uh.
When we do get right.
So this task will get completed.
So this line will also get printed before this one.
So this is the task which thread will execute.
Right.
Because before reaching here it is waiting for thread to complete.
So this thread will print this.
Now let's understand one thing.
So till now I think future might be clear to you okay this is what actually future does.
So now how exactly it works.
So now let's say that.
So now here we have Of pool executor.
Right?
We call submit right this.
Submit what it is doing.
It is creating a new future task.
And whatever the runnable tasks which we are giving.
Right, it will be putting inside this right.
So this is the runnable task right?
For us.
This is this is what we are using lambda expression to put a runnable task.
Right.
We already know the runnable.
So we are giving this runnable.
So what internally when we do submit what it does is it create a new future task.
New future task is so.
Future is an interface.
So this is an interface.
Future task is the child class of it.
So if you see this future class, if you go and check this future class, this is implements runnable
future.
And ultimately this runnable future is extended from this future.
So ultimately it's a child of future only that whenever in the thread pool executor we are submitting
this runnable task, right?
Actually this is not we are wrapping this runnable task into future tasks.
So future task has two parts.
This runnable.
Task runnable task is which one?
This one.
Whatever we are sending here.
Right.
Plus also it has state multiple state I showed you.
Right 01234 multiple states is possible for this task right.
So this is we send to the thread pool executor this future task.
So thread pool executor based upon the thread state, it will keep on updating this state.
Okay, so future is clear right?
What is the purpose of the future?
Right.
Now you might be asking that hey okay, future is clear, but what is this cost?
And Mark and.
All right.
What is this?
So you will get your answer if you understand this callable now.
So there are three flavors of the submit.
What are the three flavors.
One is.
Submit.
Runnable.
Right.
So one is submit.
Runnable.
Another is.
Submit.
Made runnable.
Comma t.
And the third one is submit callable.
Submit callable.
So we have three flavors of submit till now what we are using it till now we were using this this flavor.
So whenever I am you are doing thread pool executor dot submit.
Right.
And inside that we are using lambda expression to submit anything like say to submit anything it.
Yeah right.
System.out.println.
Do something.
So by default this submit we are using it.
This runnable Both, right?
Why?
Why you are saying that?
Hey, you can ask me, right?
Hey, why runnable is used?
Why not callable?
That is also one parameter here.
Here.
How?
We are saying that this is runnable.
Why this cannot be callable.
So that's one difference is that both runnable and callable are same.
Only difference is that runnable do not return anything.
Callable returns a certain value.
So both purpose is the same.
What is the purpose of both runnable and callable.
They represent the tasks which need to be executed just like runnable also does.
Right.
But difference is runnable.
Do not have any return type.
Callable has the capability to return the value.
Okay, this is the thread pool executor.
Now I am doing submit.
Now if I am doing like this.
System dot out dot println something.
So what it will use.
It will call runnable.
Why?
Because here if you see that it is not returning anything.
It's just doing some processing.
But if I do like this right.
Let's say future object one.
Future object two.
Submit.
Do something.
And now I am return ING.
Let's say 45.
I'm returning some value.
Now what value?
Integer.
So now what it will do.
Callable.
So that's the only difference.
Callable has the capability to return value.
Runnable does not have any return type.
See this part.
Now use case one.
I have created a thread pool executor.
I am doing thread pool executor dot submit.
I am creating a runnable.
Right.
I am using a lambda expression and I'm submitting one task.
Task one with runnable not returning anything.
So means it will call which method.
It will call this runnable.
Okay.
Understood.
What is runnable?
But how?
What is this question mark here?
Okay, now I'll tell you why we for runnable.
We have to catch like this.
So here in runnable, there is no return type.
But we need the future object, correct?
We need the future object so that at least we know what is the status of this task, whether it's completed,
or is there any exception or if I have to cancel it.
Right.
So definitely I need the future object.
But only thing is there is no there is no result or there is no output.
Right?
So that's why what it does is internally it put a void like it doesn't know.
Void means nothing.
Void means nothing, right.
So it doesn't know.
So question mark wild card means I don't know what it is.
If you have seen the video wild card one.
What does wild card mean?
It can be anything.
Right.
So generally how you catch this one.
So I take this object when I do dot get.
So what does Dot get will do on this future object?
It will wait till this task will not complete.
After that it will try to retrieve the result.
So when it try to retrieve the result, this part.
This is the result, right?
Whether it could be a string or integer or so question mark means it can be anything.
I do not know.
So when it can be any.
When it can be anything, you can only catch it into object because object class is the parent of everything,
right?
So object class is parent of everything.
Now it doesn't matter whether it's a string or integer or some other object.
Doesn't matter.
It would be able to take it.
Now if you check it is object equals to equals to null, it will return true because this is a runnable.
And when in the runnable what output value it is setting is null.
Right.
So we when we wrap into future tasks, write future tasks.
So when we have runnable write, we have a state and also we have output.
What is the result?
It comes out of this runnable task.
So we have hard coding it to null here.
Because we know that runnable do not return any value.
So there is it would always be null.
So now when you got this future object with this future object you are doing get.
So now first it will wait this runnable task to get completed.
When this runnable task get completed, it will return the output also.
So this output if you check it will always be null.
Okay so this is the use case one which till now we are doing it.
Now this is the use case two.
Here we are calling a submit.
So here let's say that the submit.
But this one runnable.
And the result I don't want null.
Always an output.
So now let me explain you that part.
So now let's say let me create my own runnable not using lambda so it will clear more.
So I'm creating my own runnable class let's say implements runnable.
So it has to implement the run method.
So implement the run method.
Okay.
So here it has to do some work.
So thread will do some work here.
Now if I do submit I will clear new runnable.
New runnable.
Mineable class.
Right.
And now I want to use this second one.
Not this first one where it always return null.
Now I want to use this one.
So what is the use case we can come up with.
So now let's say that I have one common object let's say list of integer.
So let's say this is the output.
Currently it is empty.
Currently this is empty.
Total empty.
If I can pass this to the constructor of this my runnable so means it is also have a list of integer.
It has a list of integer list and into the constructor.
I will accept this list.
Whatever it is coming, I will update.
This.
Right.
So now what I'm trying to do is that whatever the common object.
So I am trying to use a common object functionality that I created one object here and pass it to the
runnable also.
So now runnable has the same reference of that object.
Now whenever any thread will run this, start running this, it can update this list list dot.
Let's say add 100 or let's say I am adding 300 here.
So now it updated this list.
And ultimately what get updated is this output because they have the same reference right.
So I am calling this and the output result where I want that is here.
This is the output.
Okay.
And the future would be my list of integer.
This is the future object.
Okay, so this would be the future object.
So now which one it is using this runnable task and t result.
This is a generic type.
So t we have set what list of integer.
This is what we have said right.
So the same it will return.
Give us the output.
Also whatever we have provided here the same it would be return back to us.
So now what happen is whatever the object we have passed here, whatever the object we have passed here,
it will go inside this right and it will set it.
Here, here if you see, that goes inside.
So after this run got completed, after this run got completed.
So we have created this my runnable.
Right after this is completed, what it will return, it will return the result.
So whatever you are passing right it will return the same thing.
If you see then you can ask that hey, what is the point?
This is the object.
And here I am passing and it is returning the same, right?
What's the point?
So now when it return this if you print this.
So first we have to wait for this task to complete.
So future object dot get now this get throws exception.
So we have to put in try catch block.
Okay.
So now what did happen is this get will wait right.
It will wait for this task to get completed now.
Main thread will wait for this task to get completed.
After this, if I print System.out.println.
This output whether I have one way.
So this is one way.
First way, if you have access to this common you can do output dot get zero.
Second way is that you don't have access to this output now, but you want like what it has written.
So this get also returns it right.
So it will list off.
Integer.
It will return this result also.
So System.out.println.
Result dot get zero.
So both will print 300.
300 okay so you got it right.
What we are doing is we are just doing some work around.
Even though this runnable doesn't return anything, we are just playing with the common objects that
okay, this is the common object we pass to the runnable and it will update it.
And when the thread finishes, this common object will get updated.
And I can use this sometime it possible that you don't have common object.
Then what we'll do is thread executor says that hey you pass me that object.
Also whenever I will complete this task runnable task, I will throw this object so you can catch it
and do whatever you want.
Okay, so this is the second scenario where the second submit is used.
Runnable comma t object.
Now this is the third one which is a simple of the.
You can say that if you have a scenario use case two.
It is sort of like a workaround.
Right.
But this is more cleaner way.
Callable.
So now here, if you see that I don't want to do all this thing, I can do that a pool executor dot
submit.
Right.
Either I can say that.
Do some task like I can create here.
List of integer output equals to new array list output dot.
Add 300 and return this list itself.
Right.
So now this will be considered as callable because here we are returning right.
So here I have created the list and I can return it, and in the future I can simply catch it.
List of integer.
This is the your future object.
Right now.
This future object you can do get.
And when you do get, you have to put it into try catch block.
Let's say I'm doing try catch block.
Now this get will return you what?
List of integer.
So result.
With this get will come and now you will do System.out.println.
Let's say result dot get zero index.
What is there.
So here if you see this is more cleaner way I can achieve the same thing.
But it's a more cleaner way.
Okay.
So this is the third use case.
So this is mostly you can say that future and callable.
Now this is very important is Completable future.
This is introduced in Java eight.
This is also help in async programming right.
Like how our future and callable is doing right.
It is also helping async programming.
So we can consider this an advanced version of future.
It provides additional capability like chaining.
So you can say that it's just a big brother of future.
Whatever future can do, it can do because future is an interface and its child is completable future.
So what what all capability future has it has those.
Plus it has additional capabilities like chaining, I will tell you.
So let's go to the completablefuture.
So here if you see that it's implements future only.
Okay.
So now you know that okay.
It is also the same thing or how what future does.
So how it is different how to use it.
Now let's see that this is a little slightly syntax is different.
So there are five important uh five important methods in completablefuture.
The first is supply async.
Supply async.
So this is the method signature.
So this is the signature.
So here we call supply async.
This is a static.
So that's why it is called with Completablefuture dot supply a sink and there is a supplier.
So this supply a sink method is used to initiate an async operation.
Right.
What it will do is it internally create one thread and whatever the task.
So this is your task.
So whatever the task you will provide here, that task will be executed by the new thread.
Right.
So till now what we have done is we are using thread pool executor thread pool thread pool executor
is using dot submit.
So submit is creating a new task or it submit is creating a new thread.
Right.
And uh if you are using pool executor right.
It is creating a new thread from this pool and perform the task which we give.
So similarly in Completablefuture we have supply a sink.
So what internally it will do is if you don't pass the executor, then it will use the default default
pool executor which is fork join pool.
This is a fork join pool.
If you don't supply.
If you don't provide any executor it will use fork join pool.
It will take the thread out of it right.
And perform this operation in a separate thread.
Right.
And if you want a specific thread pool executor you want to use, you can pass that thread pool executor
so it will not use fork join.
So whatever the thread pool you have provided it will use that to take out the thread.
So but the supply assing purpose is to initiate an async operation like submit in thread pool executor
The supplier.
This is executed asynchronously in a separate thread.
If you want more control on thread, we can pass executor in the method.
Like if you want more control, we can pass executor in a thread.
So all let's say in the executor you have given five threads for threads.
Minimum pool.
Maximum pool.
So only that many threads will be created.
But if you if you are using this method, you are not providing any executor internally.
It will use fork join pool.
Right.
So now you don't have any control over what is the minimum threads.
Maximum threads right.
So now this is a shared pool right.
And it will dynamically adjust its pool size based upon the processor.
But you don't have any control.
So it will pick a new thread from this pool and perform the task.
So the first method is supply a or sing, which purpose is to initiate the async operation?
Let's see this example.
I have created a thread pool executor like how we are doing it before till now.
Now I am not using thread pool executor dot submit.
Now I am using Completablefuture to initiate an async compression Completablefuture dot supply async
right?
So now in the supply async, what I'm passing is let's see that supplier async.
What what it takes.
So supply async takes a supplier.
So it takes a supplier.
Supplier is nothing but a method which will perform something like simple run method.
Right.
In a runnable like in runnable we have one run method.
Consider this as a simple like this will get executed.
So this task will get executed and it will return one output.
That's what it is doing.
So it's a functional interface which do not accept anything.
So it doesn't accept anything.
And it is performing some task and returning a string.
Right.
It's returning the string.
And also I am passing the pool executor.
So I am using this method.
So there are supply passing with only supplier I am using this supplier comma executor.
So I have passed my executor here because I want full control.
How many pool size I want right.
So this is the supplier which will return the string and Completablefuture is the return type.
So supplier whatever return type would be the completablefuture would be of that only.
So completablefuture, I am returning a string, right?
So completablefuture of string.
Okay, now I can do since Completablefuture is also a child of future, so get method is there.
So if I do get now, it will wait to get this task completed and once the task completed it will try
to fetch the result and fetch the result is what this is the string.
So it will print task completed.
So first method is clear supply async which is used to initiate an async compression.
Second then apply and then apply async.
So there are two methods uh then apply and then apply async.
So there are two methods which are available.
What is the difference.
So what it does is it apply a function to the result of the previous async computation.
I told you, right?
Completablefuture is just an advanced version of future and one of the capabilities which it provides
chaining, right?
So this is one thing.
This is one way of doing it.
Apply a function to the result of the previous async computation.
Return a new compatible future object.
Understand it very very clearly right.
So now let's say this is the main thread.
Main thread is running.
Now main thread calls this Completablefuture.
So it does a supply async.
Then I provided the task which need to be run.
Let's say concept end and then apply is just a function which need to be executed after the supply async
and it would work on top of the output which supply async done returns.
So the first supply Asynch returns the concept and string.
Right?
So it accepts this string and works on top of it and return something.
It could return integer also.
But what I've done is I have added a concept and concept and and added coding and it returns.
So it is again a string.
So ultimately this is completablefuture of string because supply also returns completablefuture only.
So means you can add more.
You can add more than apply.
You can add more supply a thing because this is we are all, all are returning completablefuture it
helps you to do chaining.
Okay, so now you should have asked me one question like if this thing should comes to your mind hey
change.
Okay, main thread worked right?
So main thread initiated this supply async.
So it will create new thread thread one.
And this task has to be doing after the supplier sync and main will continue processing it task.
So which thread will process this then apply.
Is the new thread will be created?
Which thread will create this thread only it will create work on it.
Okay.
So then apply.
It is a synchronous execution.
Synchronous execution means it uses the same thread which completed the previous async task.
So whatever the thread is created here, supplier saying once it completes the supply async, then it
only comes and complete this synchronously.
First complete this and then complete.
Then apply.
But if you say that, hey, I don't want the same thread to use to complete the same itself.
I don't want this thread thread one to continue waiting.
I want this thread to be released after the async is completed.
I don't want this thread to be hold and continue work on this task also.
Then you can use apply async.
When you use apply async it will use a new.
It will create a new thread.
Let's see this by an example.
What would happen is a new thread will be created out of this thread pool executor.
I am keep this thread waited for five seconds.
Let's say some work is done and then it return this string.
Completablefuture write either.
One way is that I can just do a chaining or either in the next line?
Also, we can do like, uh, I will tell you both the way.
Either I can do completablefuture dot, then apply.
Then apply.
So let's also put the.
Thread name.
Thread name of supply.
Async.
Thread dot.
Current.
Thread dot get name.
So what is the thread which is executing this supplier thing?
Okay, so after this supply async is done I want you to then apply on this object whatever the supply
async given.
I can do also like this itself, but it would be better clear than this.
So it will accept a function Which accept one parameter.
So which parameter input parameter it accept this string only which suppliers provided.
So string.
Let's say val and it returns also right.
So let's say it returns if it is a single line I don't have to write return.
Uh but yeah we want to print the thread name.
So I need multiple line.
So let's use this this braces and then put thread name which is doing then apply method.
Okay.
And let's say it is doing return.
It is putting.
And that's all right.
And again output is compatible future only.
This is the output, and when it returns the output, what returns a string only right?
So it is returning the string after this.
Now if I run this.
If I run this what it will print.
So thread name of supply async pool one.
Thread one.
So the thread which is doing is pool one.
Thread one five second completed it returned the concept.
Right.
And after that this will get invoked.
Which one is the thread which is doing it again the same thread pool one thread one.
The same thread is following this stages, right?
You don't need to have like a separate.
You can just do like a chaining here.
Uh like this.
Right.
Like you can do like this also.
It's a chaining.
Right.
So that's what why it is called then applies synchronous.
If I use then apply a sync.
Then the thread it will use is different.
It will not use the same thread which supply async uses it.
Let's run it.
So for supply async it uses thread one waiting for five seconds.
After that it calls this then apply method but uses some other thread.
Now you can say what thread it is.
Use Forkjoin pool.
I told you, right?
If you are not providing the executor, it will use.
If you are not providing the executor, it will use by default.
Which which pull the fork join pool it will use internally.
It will use fork join pool so it from the fork join pool it pick the thread.
But if I want to have full control over the pool executor, I will pass my executor.
Hey, use this executor.
Okay, now it is possible that the same thread will be done because after this thread finish it will
goes back to the same pool.
And it is possible that because this is our executor, right?
It might pick the same thread, but at least you got that different thread generally picks that task.
So supply async is done by thread one.
Okay it picked the thread.
So you got the difference.
Uh then apply and then apply async.
Now the third is Then compose, then compose, and then compose async.
So the major differences that I told you when you have then apply async multiple then apply async.
There is no guarantee of ordering.
If you want an ordering between dependent async operation.
So you have multiple async tasks.
Async task.
One.
Async task two.
Async task three.
And there is dependent that after task one, task two should be started.
After two, three should be started.
If you need a ordering then use then compose right.
So it work is to chain together dependent async operations.
Means when next async operation depend on the result of the previous async operation, we can tied them
together by with by, then compose.
So this we can use to bring some ordering.
Okay, so now let's see that.
Then compose how we will do it with then compose.
So this is the supply async right.
If I used uh then compose here.
Now again it has the same two thing.
Then compose and then compose async you know right.
If I use then compose what would happen.
The same thread which completed the supply async.
The same thread will work on this in.
Then compose async a new thread will be created, but now ordering I don't have to worry about this
method will take care of doing ordering.
If I am putting multiple then compose right, then compose us in multiple, then compose async.
Then also ordering would be maintain it internally maintains a certain kind of ordering.
So now this, then compose.
Let's say I'm using normal then compose.
It is using this function.
Function of what?
This is the wild wild card right.
Super T so means whatever the t and above.
And this one is extends completion completion stage and below.
So this is the functional interface is used.
And it has done certain restriction to us.
What restriction.
What input.
What it can accept.
It can accept this T right.
So this t is like whatever this returns Completablefuture returns.
So here if you for simplicity, if you understand this, Completablefuture object.
Completablefuture object, then.
Come.
Then compose.
So this future object.
If you see that.
What is this t?
This t is this string.
So now here, if you see this method, this t is this string.
So wildcard super T string.
And above you can use it right.
So my parameter would be string or above.
So let's say I'm using string only.
So string value.
So what.
What would come is hello.
Now what is the again.
Second part is r part which is the return type.
What.
Actually the return type it will does is.
Extends wildcard extends Completable stage.
So means Completable stage and below.
Anything.
Anything which is below this completable stage.
So completion stage.
Below.
So generally these are all the Completable future is just below this one.
So we can use that one.
So that's where it past that.
So it returns.
What it returns.
It returns the Completable future.
Another Completable future.
It returns.
So we can do like anything we can pass or we can do another supplier thing because that also returns
the completable future.
Right?
So that we can do we can do supply passing on this one.
So whatever the hello we have.
So let's say I am working that well plus world.
Right.
And I want my executor to use it.
So this one pool executor then compose.
Okay.
So pool executor.
It will be helpful when you do only a sync.
So in sync only executor is there for if a sync is not there, you do not need executor right.
Because the same thread, the same thread which has performed this async task will be used.
Okay.
So only with async this pool executor is required.
If you are using compose then it is not required.
So you got it.
What?
We are doing it here.
So first I am creating a supplier sync.
It has created one async task.
Now on top of it I want to do dependent async operation.
So this will be started only after this.
So I am doing then compose so it will accept one parameter and return one thing and what it accept whatever
like a string and above.
So this is a string and above and what it returns completion stage and below.
So this completion stage and below you might already know this.
We have already covered this.
How to read this question mark extends completion stage and below.
And we know that completion future is the child of completion stage.
So we can it has to return this.
So we can return this.
So we can create one supplier thing because it will generate the one completable future for us.
And ultimately then compose also returns completable future so we can accept it and this object so it
will return ultimately this string itself.
Right.
You So what?
Completable.
Stage you.
So what?
It is returning a string?
Right now.
No matter.
So either you can write like this, or you can do like in a continuation.
Like dot.
Like this.
You can also do.
Now no matter how many you can do like this.
Even like this async.
Even if you have this like an async, let's say even you have now multiple this part multiple, then
async ordering is maintained.
First this will get completed, then this will get completed and then this will get completed.
Now ordering is maintained right.
Because internally if you go inside this there is something which it uses.
So here it maintains certain kind of a stack of dependent actions, no matter if you are using async.
So it maintains some dependent actions and only after that it will get run.
Okay.
So now if you want to print output, if you print it hello world all.
So now this will always guarantee that it will always print.
Hello world all hello world all.
There is no way it will come like hello all world.
So is it clear?
Then compose.
Then there is something called.
Then accept and then accept async the same thing.
Now I will.
So now you already know.
Then accept and then accept async async means.
New thread will be created and if async is not there means same thread will be used.
So generally it's an end stage in the chain of async operation.
So here if you see the example here I have created a supply async here.
As usual Completablefuture supply async.
So this is async operation.
I am passing my pool executor, then I am doing then accept.
So if you see the then accept right.
So here.
If I do.
Then accept.
Okay so now this then accept.
It.
It's functional interfaces which accept input parameter but doesn't return anything.
So generally that's why it is considered that as a end part of the chaining.
So it accept one thing.
So it accept is after a supply async right.
So it return.
So let me use that in a separate.
So it would be more understanding that okay.
So on this future object I am calling the next step.
So it return what it has string.
So it will accept this parameter.
Do some task.
Let's say System.out.println.
Printing the value.
Well that's all.
But it is not returning anything so it returns void.
Actually.
Uh Completablefuture object let's say second.
Right.
But it is returning not string.
It's returning void.
Now if you try to let's say that hey I can chain it right.
I can again chain it more.
Let's say I want to apply then uh apply now in then apply.
You have to use T and above the input parameter.
So you have send void.
Now what you will use right.
So generally because this is what you have to use void and above.
So you have to pass void value something that doesn't make sense right.
So now it has said that hey I haven't returned any value on which you can work upon right.
I haven't written anything which you can work upon.
So generally that's why we call say that then except is generally used at the end of the chain.
Okay.
So you got it.
It will just print it and it will not return anything.
Async is you know that the same difference.
I told you that thread only new thread it will create.
The last one is you are then combined actually.
Then combine and then combine async the same thing.
Synchronous, a new thread will be created.
New thread will be created for this and the same thread above which has been used.
The same thread will go and perform this task.
So I will just explain then combine.
Otherwise there is a difference between the thread, so it is used to combine the result of the two
comparable future.
So now let's say this is one comparable future.
I am creating comparable future dot supply async right?
I am passing one task right.
So here you can say that uh, which doesn't accept anything but it start working on this part returning
ten.
And then I created another Completablefuture supply async which doesn't accept anything.
Right.
And perform what it is returning.
Kay.
So there are two completable Completablefuture tasks, so it will create thread one.
It will create thread two.
Both are.
Both will perform and this supply async will return Completablefuture integer.
This will return Completablefuture of string.
Now I want to combine the result so you can do it using.
Then combine.
So let's say I want to combine.
Let's say task one async task one dot.
Then you can do anyway either around.
So I'm using async task one.
This is also a completablefuture right.
So then combine combine it with what task two.
So in now in the parameter I am passing the task two with what Completablefuture you want to merge the
result.
And here we have to pass the.
So this is a functional interface.
So here if we you see.
Then combine.
So in then combine the completion stage.
So I have passed it so we can, uh, this is the complete table.
Uh completable future.
Right.
This we have passed now here.
What?
By function.
So by function is t you are.
Parameter one, parameter two t you and return is the output.
Right.
And that R is ultimately the completable future.
This it will return.
So t you.
So this is your t this is you.
And this is R right.
So in the by function t you is coming as an input parameter.
So t is your this one.
Async task one.
What is it.
Return integer async task two What it is.
Return a string.
So this is you.
And based upon that, I just did concatenate it ten k and return it.
So return is again a string.
This is again a string.
Right.
So ultimately completablefuture of string comes.
So if you do this complete combined combined future object dot, get what you will get ten k which is
a string.
And if you print that string ten k would come.
Okay so I so see like if you don't practice it this will gonna confuse it too much.
I try to be this is very hard topic to explain, but I try to be in depth as much as possible.
Please please please do practice it.
Make your own notes.
Then only you would get clear what's happening Right.
So this mostly are chaining right.
Completablefuture is mostly helps in chaining right.
Otherwise I will tell you that in yes, we do use Completablefuture in almost all Mnx now using it.
But this chaining is hardly you will find it to be used maximum.
We use supply async.
After supply async we do just get and wait for the result right?
Very rarely you will see that we will use, then apply, then combine, then compose.
Right.
But still it's very important from interview perspective.
But you have to practice, think about use cases, try to implement it.
If you have any question let me know.
We will discuss further, but practice with your hand like otherwise it would be a lot of confusion
would be there.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- ForkJoinPool, WorkStealingPool, FixedThreadPool, CachedThread & SingleThreadPool ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the multi-threading we are going to do Executor's utility class.
And also the fork join pool.
Very very important topic for join pool.
So that we will also cover today.
And you're gonna love it.
Uh there's a lot of information in there I want to share.
So in the thread pool executor.
So this is how till now we were creating the thread pool executor.
Right.
So this is generally you can known as custom thread pool executor.
Custom thread pool executor like we we ourself creating core pool size maximum pool size.
So we customizing the our thread pool based upon our need.
Right.
So there is a class utility class executors which is present into Java.util dot concurrent package.
So it provide a lot of factory methods which we can use to create a thread pool executor, right.
So what, all those factory methods.
Right.
So that I will tell you today.
Okay.
So this is the first one.
So let's say your requirement is that you want a fixed thread pool executor.
Right.
So generally we have this core pool size which is you can say that the minimum pool minimum thread pool
and max is the maximum number of threads right.
So in with the fixed thread pool executor it creates a thread pool executor with a fixed number of threads
means your min and max pools are same whatever you will provide.
So in this method, whatever the number you will provide, the min and max would be the same.
So this is how generally we create executor.
So I told you right.
This is the class right.
And this is the static method.
You can directly call with the class name.
So executor dot new fixed thread pool and you give the number.
So now what would happen is the min and max pool size is same five.
What would be the queue size?
It's an unbounded unbounded means.
It might be behind using linked list.
So there is no size right till it has a don't have a memory issue.
It can grow thread alive time when idle.
Yes.
So even though the threads are idle, there is no task at all.
Even though this five threads which are created would still be alive, right?
So thread will still be alive even when idle.
So you can now ask, right?
Hey, when to use this fixed thread pool executor.
So when to use.
So when you have an exact info how many async task is needed, then you can go for it, right?
You have an exact info that.
Yes, I need five threads.
That's all.
I don't want to use more than that.
Right?
So go for that.
But what is the disadvantage?
Disadvantage is not good when workload is heavy as it will lead to limited concurrency, right?
If somehow workload is become very heavy.
Right.
You might have capability to have more threads.
But now since you are using fixed thread pool, you have fixed your size min and max.
Right?
You can't create more threads now.
So that is the problem with it.
So that's the disadvantage.
So this is how we generally create this.
So generally you can achieve the same thing by uh providing this here all this customize.
You can provide all this customized information here.
But this is just like a handy.
So this is just you can say that a factory method, if this requirement fits you use it.
Otherwise you can go for custom one, right?
So these are the properties of the fixed thread pool executor.
And this is how you're gonna create it.
Executors dot new fixed thread pool give the size and just submit it.
And the task which you wanted to submit whether you want to submit runnable task.
Right.
This is the second one.
Cached thread pool executor.
Right.
So what it is used for.
So this is a method which is we use executors dot new cache thread pool.
Right.
This is the method we have to use new cache thread pool.
So this method creates a thread pool that creates a new thread as needed dynamically.
Right.
So initially let's say it has zero threads.
So what is the minimum and max pool.
So minimum is zero.
There is so this in this pool there is zero thread.
But as request comes in it keep on creating a new thread.
It keep on creating a new threads.
Right?
So what is the maximum number of threads it can create?
Is integer dot max values till the memory doesn't cause any issue, it keep on creating it.
So you can ask me a question at this point.
Hey what is the use of queue then?
Generally we keep the thread count limited certain limited number and if more jobs comes into this then
we put the task into the queue.
Yes, but in this one the queue size is zero.
Or generally you can say that the when you use this new thread pool queue is not even use queue size
is zero, right?
So as soon as request comes in it creates a thread and assign go work, right.
So thread alive time when idle is 62nd.
So now let's say it has created.
Let's say there are 100 requests comes in suddenly.
Now it created 100 threads.
Thread one.
Thread two.
Thread 100.
Now let's say this thread got free, right?
Now there is no more task.
So when this thread will get dead if they are idle for 60.
Second, if the thread is idle for 60s after 62nd that thread will get terminated.
Right?
So thread is alive when idle only for 62nd after after 62nd it will get terminated.
So when you should use this.
So it is good for handling burst of short lived tasks.
So if you have a scenario where the task is going to be live for very short durations, right?
Then you can go for it, right?
If you have a task which gonna run for long duration of time, it's never.
You can say that suggested to use this pool executor because it is generally suited for short lived
tasks.
So and you know, the disadvantage by now is that if many long lived tasks are submitted rapidly, thread
pool can create so many threads which might lead to an increased memory usage, right?
Because so many threads you have, so many tasks are submitted and so many threads has been created.
And they are not.
They are.
They are not getting terminated soon.
They are long running.
So it might cause a memory issue.
So it is only suggested for short lived tasks.
And after 60s it gets terminated if it is idle.
Okay, so this is how you generally created executor dot new cache thread pool.
And then you can submit the runnable task to it.
This is the third one single thread executor.
This is the method which you gonna use it.
New single thread executor method.
You can use it.
It create an executor with just single worker thread.
So in a thread pool you now will have only one thread.
And you have a queue, right.
So what is the minimum and maximum pool size?
Only one.
What is the queue size?
Unblocking queue means it might be using linked list.
Internally there is like queue can be huge thread alive when idle.
Yes.
So as it is only one thread, even if there is queue is empty.
Totally this thread will still be alive.
When to use.
When you need to process the task sequentially, then only it is suggested to use.
Disadvantage.
No concurrency at all, right.
Very straightforward.
Thread pool.
Executor.
Right.
Internally, it creates only one thread.
Okay.
Now here we have another.
Is work stealing pool executor.
Very very important part.
Work stealing pool executor.
And before I tell you about work stealing pool executor, you have to understand.
Now fork join pool also because this work stealing pool executor, it internally creates a fork join
pool executor only.
And generally it's almost same.
Now I will tell you what it does actually.
Okay.
So now let's understand with this part how this work Stilling pool executor works.
So it create a fork.
Join pool executor.
Right.
So fork and join.
So I'll tell you that what generally fork join is.
You have submitted a task right.
So let's say it is a big task.
Now this big task has to be divided into smaller tasks.
How we can do is using fork.
Using fork.
Right.
You can do further degradation of this subtask using fork only.
Right.
And after that you can call join.
Right.
You can call join where it will wait for each subtask to finish, where it will wait for each subtask
to finish join.
And ultimately it will return the final result.
I will show you an example of this.
Right.
We will see a code for this.
Right.
So I will show you this fork and join how to do that.
But you understand right.
What is fork join pool executor.
When I said that fork join pool executor.
The concept is the big task is divided into multiple subtasks.
Using fork, the each subtask can be further subdivided right into further subtasks.
And then ultimately we call a join where we wait for those subtasks to get finished.
And ultimately we club the result together and return the final result.
Right.
So what is the purpose is the purpose is to bring more.
Parallelism.
Right.
So that small task can be like if there are more subtasks, if only one big task is there means only
one thread gonna work.
But now since you have created multiple subtasks, it is.
We can make certain framework like pool, fork, join, pool, provide that framework work stealing
that.
This subtask can be divided to multiple threads.
Hey thread one you do this.
Hey thread two you do this right so we can bring more parallelism.
Like we will divide this subtask to multiple threads that hey, different threads, you go and work
and then will club the result together.
So earlier only one thread is going to do the task.
Now multiple threads are going to do the task.
And what is the way of achieving this fork?
Join pool is work stealing pool executor.
That is the name stealing, right?
Work stealing.
I will tell you now what just happened.
Okay, so till now.
Now you have know what is fork join pool.
Now let's say how it works first.
So till now.
Do you know what is the flow?
Let's say this is thread pool.
You have thread one, thread two.
You have queue.
That's it.
Queue.
Uh 012.
Size three.
Now what happens is let's say task one.
Come.
Task one come.
What it will do.
Thread one is allotted to it.
Booked.
Task two is coming.
What would happen is thread two is allotted.
Booked.
Task three is coming.
What would happen is queued.
It would be entered into the queue.
Right?
Task four is coming.
What would happen is it would be put into queue.
Now let's say thread one got free, right?
It got free.
It completed.
Task one is completed.
Thread one got free.
What thread one will do.
Thread one will look into the queue and pick the item from the Q.
So thread one will now do this and it will remove the item from the queue.
So this is basic.
We have already know now what work is stealing.
Pool executor has done is it has now extended this concept.
How now what happened is again understand this what changes it has done.
So again we have a thread pool.
Right now we have thread one, thread two.
We have a queue.
Till now everything is same.
Let's say it uses unblock queue means the queue can be of any size, right?
Okay.
There is now first differences here.
It maintains a dequeue also.
So there is a d q.
D q for this thread.
Thread two to also maintain its DQ threat to also maintain its DQ.
So one thing first thing, you have noticed that each thread has its own DQ, which is known as work
stealing.
Q right, let me, uh, I will show you that this is the name which they have given.
So.
Here, let's say executor Dot.
Right.
And we are seeing this.
Work stealing pool right inside this work stealing pool.
We need to see that, uh, work stealing.
Q right, so this work stealing Q is associated with Which is thread right.
So this is work stealing queue.
Okay.
And this queue is known as submission queue.
Submission queue.
So.
Submission queues.
So you can read more about in their documentation of this submission.
Queues.
Right.
So this queue is known as submission queue.
Now what happens now let's say task coming right.
Just understand the flow.
Very important task one is coming right.
So what happen is task one comes let's say thread one takes it.
Now let's say task two comes.
Thread two takes it.
Now this task which I am talking about now let's say this task is something which can be divided into
further subtasks, right?
I'll tell you how you can divide it.
So any tasks which can be divided into subtasks, you have to create make a child of a recursive task
or recursive action.
I will explain you how.
But for now you have to understand the flow.
Okay, this task one let's say it cannot be divided.
It cannot be divided.
So no issues.
So thread one picks it.
It will work it as use as usual.
What we know thread one picks it.
Now thread two is let's say it is a it is your this this task.
Recursive task or recursive action.
So let's say it is your instead of task.
Let me put it's a.
Recursive action right or recursive tasks something.
So it is a normal task.
It's a recursive task, right.
And let's say thread two picks it.
Okay so this thread is currently booked.
This thread is currently booked.
Okay.
Now let's say task three comes in.
Normal task three.
What would happen is both threads are busy.
It would be goes into the queue.
Which queue?
Submission queue.
This is your task three till now.
All clear.
Everything how it is usual working now.
See what happens now.
Since this is a recursive task means this task two.
Now let's say it can be divided into two subtasks.
Subtask one.
Subtask two.
Right.
This task two let's say, is divided into two subtasks.
Subtask one.
Subtask two.
Now how these two subtasks would be handled.
So thread two start working on this subtask one.
Thread two will start working on this subtask one.
And this subtask another subtask it will put into its work stealing queue.
Hey this is the subtask two I have.
And currently thread two is now gonna work on.
So this recursive task is now broken into two and thread two.
Start working on the subtask one, subtask one of thread two.
Right.
So your thread two is currently work on subtask one of task two and the subtask two it has put into
its work stealing queue.
Okay.
Now what would happen is let's say thread Read.
Task one is finished.
This one is completed now.
Thread one is free now.
What the first priority it will do.
Thread one will do first.
Checking its work.
Stealing queue.
Hey, any task is present here in my work.
Stealing queue or not?
Hey!
No, it is empty.
So what is the priority?
Priority is first check on.
Work stealing queue.
Okay, so task one thread one will check first its own work queue.
Hey, is there any queue in any task present in my work?
Stealing?
No.
Right.
Then second, it will check.
Second priority is submission queue.
Check.
Hey, if any task is waiting in the queue.
Yes.
Task three is waiting in the queue.
So it will pick the task three.
So now task three has been taken from the submission.
And now it's given to thread one.
Okay.
So now let's say thread one is working on it.
So and this one has been removed.
But for the sake of discussion let's say I am trying to say that thread two is still occupied with subtask
one, right?
Just for discussion, I'm saying thread two is still busy with the subtask one of task two and its work
is still in queue is still.
Subtask two is currently pending.
It has to do that.
And Task thread one has now picked the thread three and let's say it also completed it.
This is also completed and this become free also.
So thread one is now free again right.
And this queue is now empty right.
And this task one is completed.
Task three is also now completed.
Now what will we do?
Thread one first priorities.
It checks on work stealing.
Q is there any task present into my work?
Stealing?
Q no.
Second, it checks the submission.
Q is there any task present into the submission?
Q no, now, third, it will see that.
Can I steal some task from busy thread?
Now it will see that hey is there any busy thread.
And there are tasks pending into his uh it's work stealing q's.
So it says that yes, task thread two is busy with some tasks and it's work.
Stealing Q is has certain tasks pending, so it will steal this and put it into its work.
Stealing.
telling you.
So it, put it, steal it and this become free here.
Now it is free and it can start working on it.
So now task one can now work on.
Subtask two of task two.
Right.
So that's why it is known as stealing right.
So there is no stealing can happen on submission.
There is only one submission queue.
But each thread maintain its own work stealing queue.
Right.
And a thread which is free and less occupied can steal the task from a busy thread from its work.
Stealing cuz you got the term now work stealing pool executor.
What does it mean?
Right flow you should be able to understand that, uh, how this Flo is there, right?
So what is the priority?
First priority is that each thread, whenever it gets free, it will first check its work stealing queue.
If there is no no task, then it will go and check the submission queue.
If also it is there is no task.
It will check some busy threads and see that if it can steal the task from their work stealing queues.
Now few question arrives to your mind that hey Shreyansh, two things I need to know first.
How to divide the task now.
How to divide the task into subtasks.
Second is how to put that task into.
Work.
Join or not.
Work.
Join work.
Steal.
Work, stealing.
Q okay, so these two questions should comes to your mind how to divide the task into subtasks and how
to put the task into a work stealing.
Q now let's see that right.
So I will tell you this point also.
But this is the flow steps which I have.
Whatever I explained you this I have written here.
Right.
You can consider while making the notes.
Okay.
Now understand this first question how task can be split into multiple subtasks, right?
For that you need to extend recursive task or recursive action classes.
Right.
So this is I have showed a very simple example.
Right.
So what's the difference whenever your subtask need to return anything.
Go for recursive tasks.
Right.
When?
Whenever your subtask need to return.
Return the value.
Anything.
Value.
Then go for this.
Whenever your subtask do not return any value, you can go for recursive action, right?
So why this is required for a class.
So now let's say that what I am trying to do is let's say I am trying to make one simple task.
I am creating a simple task, and my task requirement is that whatever the start and end I will give,
let's say I will start, give one and end I would give, let's say 100 start and end.
I need to make a sum of it like one plus two plus three plus plus 100.
So I want to have this task create whatever the start and end you will give.
I will have to compute the sum of all and return.
But now what?
I'm trying to show you that how you can.
So this is one task.
This is your one task.
Now I want to do subtask of it.
I need to divide this.
How?
So I have created a class compute subtask.
You can give any name like it's a class name.
Now I am extended this recursive task.
Right.
What output?
It will return integer.
It's a it's a generic.
You can like whatever the your subtask gonna return it.
You can have that integer.
Okay.
This is just the my member variables start and end.
This is the constructor where I will initialize this.
Now here if you go to the recursive class right here.
Let's see.
Right.
Write recursive tasks here.
If you see this class.
This class has one method called compute.
So we have to implement this method right.
This is the main computation performed by this task.
Right.
So we have to provide the implementation.
And this is where we have to divide our tasks.
So how I am dividing it.
So I am saying that if the end minus start is less than equals to four, if there are four values only,
then I don't need to divide further.
So you can say that it's like a condition terminating condition right.
So if there are only four items then I don't need to divide further.
I can simply iterate and compute the sum.
Else if there are more.
Let's say if there are 812345678.
Split the task like like a binary search.
Right.
It's the same.
Find the mid start plus and divide by two.
Find the mid.
And I am now creating two tasks.
So see I am not calling this method like in binary.
We call this method right recursively recursion.
So I am not calling this method.
I'm creating two tasks the same new compute some tasks again, right?
Whichever this class I am creating, I created this two objects of it, calling it as left task, calling
it as right task right.
And in the left and right I just added this the index.
So let's say it's A12345678.
So 124I have assigned to this.
And 567, eight I assigned to this one.
That's what I did.
So start to mid mid plus one to n.
So these are the two tasks I provided right.
So these are the two tasks I provided.
And what I did is I called the fork.
So this is what you need to know that when I call the fork what does happen.
So fork the subtask for parallel execution.
So whenever you call fork what it means is this left task.
So here the same example.
Task two is divided into sub task one sub task two.
And initially task two was doing by let's say thread thread two.
Right.
This was the scenario.
So when this task is divided into two this one of the subtask gonna pick by thread two and another is
put into its work still in.
Q so the same thing.
So let's say whatever the thread, let's say T1 is currently performing this task.
And this now is divided into two parts.
So whatever the thread it will start working on let's say left thread.
So thread one will now work on this left task.
And that task is put where into thread one work stealing queue.
So now you got it.
How to put the task into the work queue.
Whenever you do fork.
Whenever you do fork right, so means you are dividing the task into two parts.
One part, the same thread gonna start because now that big task is now no more.
It's small chunks.
So one chunk is gonna pick by the thread, and another chunk is gonna be put into its work stealing
queue, which is can be steal by buy can be still buy some other thread which is free.
Okay, so now you have the answer your how to divide the task.
We have to create a class child of recursive task or recursive action.
We have to implement this method.
Compute right.
And in this simple example or whatever the example I have told you.
So here we have divided the task into two left task and right task.
And we have started the fork parallel execution.
Now this fork has been done.
Now I have to wait for the join so it will go now when this task has been picked right.
So the same compute will get called.
Now it will say that n minus the start is less than equal to four.
Yes 1234.
It's less than equal to four.
So it will find its sum.
It won't further divide it.
But let's say if it is less than equals to two.
So this task will get further divided 1234.
And this will get further divided 25678.
Right.
So you know right how they gonna pick it.
So whichever thread was working on this 1234 the same thread.
Gonna pick it.
It will put it into its working queue.
Work stealing queue.
Similarly.
Likewise.
Otherwise.
Okay.
And after that all this division works.
We have to put a join.
So what this join do is it will wait for that particular subtask to finish.
Right.
It will wait for that subtask to finish.
So I am waiting on my left result.
So here the left result right.
This task I am joining here at the bottom.
Whatever it would be there, let it be finished.
Right.
So when the next state will come, it will wait it here.
Join would be running.
So it will wait for it to get completed.
Right.
So ultimately it has to wait.
Left result.
Ultimately it has to wait for right result.
Right.
So join is like we are joining the result.
Taking the result from all the subtasks, clubbing it together and returning it and returning it.
I hope it is clear how you can create the task which can be divided into subtasks, right?
So I have extended it from recursive task because here if you see that I am returning, I am returning
the value from this compute in recursive action.
Recursive action.
This compute is void.
Returning void it.
Do not return anything.
Then you can go ahead with recursive action.
But the core point is that.
Whatever the tasks you have divided into multiple subtasks which you want two, three, four, whatever,
call the fork on that so that we are allowing them to run parallelly.
And when I say that run parallelly means we are putting task into work, stealing queues so that other
threads can pick it up.
And then we have to also put the join so that we have to wait for them to get complete and ultimately
combine the result and return.
Very simple.
Okay.
Got it.
So here I am calling this fork join pool dot common pool.
So one way is that you can call this method work Stilling Pool Executor, which is present into this
one.
I have showed right executors dot new work stilling pool internally itself.
It will create a fork join pool only.
Right.
And another way is that calling the fork join pool class and call the common pool.
Create the fork join pool object first and then submit it and then call the submit and submit the task
to it.
Now thing is, when you submit.
When you fork.
When you submit where this task goes.
Submission queue right?
Generally if any thread is free it will pick.
If thread is not free, it will goes into submission queue.
Whenever you do, fork where it will go.
work stealing.
Q.
And in the work, stealing Q multiple threads gonna steal from which?
Q not from submission.
Q from work stealing Q if thread is free.
If thread doesn't have any task into its work stealing.
Q if there is no task present into submission Q also, then only it can go ahead in the third priority.
It can steal the task from the other thread.
Q.
Got it.
So now you know that.
Yeah.
Now one thing left is how many number of threads we can create.
How many number of threads in this pool we can create.
So there are two ways.
So either so here you can say that while new work is work stilling pool.
Either you don't provide anything.
If you don't provide anything, what it will do is available.
Processor.
It will call this method runtime dot available processor.
How many processors are there?
That much thread it will create for?
If you have four processors it will create four thread.
If you have eight processor it will create eight threads.
If you have 16 processor it will create 16 threads, right.
Another way is that you put yourself the value.
There is another overloaded method where you provide it.
Hey, I need this much thread and when you provide this then it's a min and max is both same, right?
And it retain that number.
This much thread will always be active, right?
So.
Now you understand what is fork join pool.
How many number of threaded squid you know?
Two types of QS.
It maintains submission Q work Q, you know.
Right.
Q why it used DQ.
Because in the work stealing Q right.
Whenever any other thread steal the task, it will steal it from the back.
This is front right.
So other thread whenever steal the task where from it it steal it steal from the back not from the front.
From front.
The same thread.
Let's say this is the task two work stealing.
So task two when consume from front.
But any other thread want to steal it?
Steal from the back.
Okay.
So with that I think fork join pool should be clear with you.
Just try to implement this example by your own.
Make your own notes.
It will get more clear.
If you have any question, let me know.
We will discuss more.

--- Java ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor | Shutdown Vs AwaitTermination | Multithreading ---

Hey, guys.
Welcome back.
This is Suryansh.
And in multithreading today we are going to cover these four topics.
So this and this virtual thread versus normal thread and shutdown versus await termination.
This is an interview question which has been recently asked in Java interview.
And one of the engineer has asked me to cover this two part as he has faced this two questions.
So we will also see what are these right.
So let's start.
Let's cover see what is the difference between shutdown versus await termination versus shutdown.
Now very very simple.
We have already seen this shutdown.
You already know initiates orderly shutdown of the executor service right.
Orderly shutdown of the executor service.
Remember this I will tell you what does it mean after calling shutdown executor will not accept any
new task submission Mission already submitted tasks will continue to execute.
What does it mean?
You know that we create a thread pool executor, right?
And after that, we call submit and our runnable task.
So this submit this task has been submitted to thread pool executor.
Right.
So when we call shutdown what it does two things.
One thing is it stop.
It will not accept any new task submission.
So after shutdown no new task will be accepted.
Second thing is already submitted.
Task will continue to execute.
Let's say thread one is already executed.
Task one.
Thread two is already executing task two.
So those will not get any interruption.
They will continue to work.
Okay.
So let's see an example.
First task submission after shutdown right.
So this is the normal executor I am creating.
We already know that.
So I am using executors class and I am creating this new fixed thread pool five.
Right.
We have already seen this, right?
So now I have created a pool.
I am submitting one task right?
So now one task is already submitted.
Now I have shut down this task.
Now I have shut down this thread pool executor.
Now if you are trying to submit the task, another task now to this thread pool executor.
Generally it should not allow and that's where you will get an exception rejected because thread pool
has been shut down.
It will not accept any new task, but any task which is already submitted.
It will continue to work properly.
Right.
So this any thread which pick this task, it will continue to work properly.
Right?
So shut down do not impact the already submitted tasks that right.
So here the same example.
I am trying to say that I have created a thread pool executor calling the submit submitted one task
right?
So then I have made the shutdown.
I have shut down this thread pool executor.
Now after that this main thread is finished, but this thread is continuously running right?
I have make it sleep for five seconds so that we can just get to know that okay, even though the main
thread is finished, the thread is still working.
So if you see the output you will see the output is first, it will print this main thread unblocked
and finished processing.
Right?
And after that it will say that new task.
It will print this.
So what does we get?
Get to know that even though thread pool is shut down, this thread, whichever has fixed the task,
it is not interrupted.
It will continue to work its properly.
After five seconds it will print new task right, after five seconds it will print new tasks.
Okay, so shutdown is clear.
Right.
It is very clear.
You can even, uh, code and test that, right?
Shutdown dot submit any runnable tasks.
Right.
So just say that I want to make this thread.
Dot sleep.
Let's say for five seconds.
Okay.
Let me zoom it a bit.
Okay.
So I've created a thread pool executor.
Uh, and I'm submitting a task.
Right.
And after this five second waiting, it just printing task completed.
Okay.
Now this pool I am.
Shutting it down.
Right.
And the main.
The main thread is completed, so this will get completed.
But this thread will wait for five seconds.
And then I'm showing you because we will use the same example for await termination.
So main thread is completed.
It is now waiting for five seconds and then it printed.
Task completed okay.
So this should be clear.
Shut down now.
Await termination.
What does it mean?
See, it's an optional functionality.
Either return true or false.
Right.
One thing you have to remember that it's an optional functionality.
It do not force the thread pool executor to stop or to do anything.
It's just kind of a checking what it will check, I will tell you, but it simply return true or false?
It is used after calling shutdown method, right?
So if you are calling before a wait termination mostly of no use, it is used after calling shutdown
method.
It blocks the calling thread for a specific timeout period and wait for Executorservice.
Shutdown returns true if the Executorservice gets shutdown with specific timeout, else false.
So in the previous one shutdown, you know that what happened is when we call the shutdown, the main
thread doesn't wait.
It just goes to the next line.
Main thread is completed and goes out.
So I told you that await termination is used after calling the shutdown right?
So here I am calling Boolean is terminated equals to pools object await termination.
Let's say I want to wait only for two seconds.
Two seconds.
Right.
So here it required try catch block.
Right.
And I am printing here.
Is terminated.
What is it?
Whether true or false.
Okay.
Now see what is happening.
Await termination.
So what it does is.
So once you after call the shut down, the main thread goes here.
Now when we are doing await termination two second we have provided two second.
So for two seconds this main thread will wait.
Right.
So if in two seconds if this pool thread pool executor is not shut down because we have called the shutdown
right.
So this await termination is just a checking whether thread pool executor is shut down or not.
So how much time it wait?
It wait for two seconds.
Right.
the main thread.
Wait for two seconds and check.
Is your pool shut down or not?
Definitely it won't because thread is currently running and until this thread is not yet finished,
this pool cannot be shut down, right?
So it will return false here.
So now let's run it.
So now here.
If you see that currently nothing is terminated.
False.
And after that it comes.
Main thread is completed.
Right.
So first after it called shutdown it blocked the main thread for two seconds.
Then it checks terminated.
False.
It's in two seconds.
This thread pool is not shut down.
Then it printed this.
Then the main thread is.
After two seconds it got unblocked and then it printed this.
After five seconds the thread completed.
So it whether it returned true or false, right?
If the if it is shut down, it will return true.
Okay.
But it is an optional functionality.
If you have any use case where you have to perform certain tasks after the thread pool is shut down,
then you can use it.
Otherwise it's just an optional.
It doesn't do anything.
It doesn't force to get shut down or it doesn't do anything.
It just getting the information whether it is shut down or not.
So that's why it is known as optional functionality.
Got it.
Then third we have is shutdown now.
So one thing you have to know it's a best effort attempt to stop or interrupt the actively executing
task.
Right.
So let's say you have a thread pool executor right.
And it also has a queue.
So task is waiting.
Task one waiting.
And already had thread one performing tasks.
Let's say two thread two performing, let's say task three and task one is let's say waiting.
So what it will do is it will stop or interrupt the actively executing task.
Right.
So it will interrupt this task.
Also hold the processing of the task which are waiting.
So there might be some task or thread which are in wait state waiting for some event to happen.
So it will hold those or return the list of tasks which are awaiting execution.
So there might be some tasks which are waiting to get executed so it will return the list.
So what it is trying to do is shut down now right.
It tried to shut down the thread pool executor as soon as possible.
So now take this example.
So here for let's say 15 seconds I have used the sleep on this thread.
So for 15 seconds it will be on complete sleep.
And after that it should print right.
If I am using the shutdown.
But here now I'm using shut down now.
Okay.
So now let's say that I'm doing calling this one.
So if I'm calling normal shutdown, you already know what would happen.
It will get printed this first and this thread will not get interrupted.
It will wait for 15 seconds and then it will print this.
But now I am using thread shutdown.
Now what it will do is it will even interrupt the actively executing task.
So it will not wait for 15 seconds.
It will interrupt it right.
So here, if you see that task completed as soon as.
So it didn't even let it sleep.
It interrupted it and simply completed.
So sometimes it might happen that it will not even complete it successfully.
It just throws an exception and goes out interrupted.
Right?
But that's why it is called a best effort.
It just interrupted this sleeping thread and it completed its task and completed as soon as possible.
But this is on active execution task.
Second thing is the tasks which are waiting for any event like it will just stop them.
They will not get even chance to get completed, right?
It halts the processing of the tasks which are waiting.
Return the list of tasks which are waiting awaiting execution.
So this queue task.
If there are any, it will just return this task that these are not even processed.
So got it.
You got this difference between all these three.
So the next topic is scheduled thread pool executor.
Okay so we have seen different thread pool executor.
Now now this is very interesting thread pool executor schedule as the name itself give you a hint.
Scheduled some task right.
So yes it helps to schedule the tasks.
So it's a child of thread pool executor.
And it has this whatever the methods which are present into thread pool executor.
Right.
write, submit or whatever the methods we have seen, it's all there.
So additionally, these four methods are newly present into thread pool.
Executor.
Very very simple method.
Right?
Uh, so one thing is schedule runnable task.
Whatever the task which we have to this delay and unit.
So let's say schedule, let's say this is the task I want to run.
Hello.
Okay.
This is just a runnable task.
Delay.
Let's say three time unit is time unit dot second.
Let's say this is the method which I invoke.
So what does it mean?
Is scheduled a runnable task.
So this is my runnable task.
So scheduled this task after a specific delay after this much time.
So after three second this task will run.
How many times?
Only one.
Only one time.
This will run.
If you put 13 seconds.
After 13 seconds, this will run.
So now this is the thread pool executor which we have created first.
Okay, so you can use the executors the same class itself.
And we have created the thread pool executor.
So now here the when we have created five what does it created.
Core pool size minimum means minimum thread.
So what is the maximum max value.
Anything you want keep alive.
Time is zero.
Nanosecond means this five thread will always wait.
Will always.
Even though five threads are idle, it will still be there.
It will not get removed.
So maximum thread how many it create as soon as you will require it.
And this is the minimum number of thread it will create scheduled.
Okay, so now we have to do schedule You'll and then runnable object.
We have to print.
Hello.
Right.
So we need System.out.println.
So let's use this.
Hello.
Okay.
Uh here after this one we have to give time.
So let's say after five seconds.
It should be printed okay.
So.
Let's run it.
So after five seconds it will wait for five second.
And then.
Hello.
Should get printed here.
Hello.
So you already you now know right?
What does schedules mean.
The second method is schedule.
But instead of runnable we have a callable.
Right.
And the same method.
Now you know the difference right between runnable and callable.
Runnable do not returns any value.
Callable returns a value.
Right.
The same example.
But if I am able to return something right, let's say something, anything or.
Return the string itself.
Right.
Let's say return.
Hello.
Now, this is also a which method it will call callable because it is returning now.
Now it is returning.
Right.
So in the future object you can call.
So future object.
You can save it.
And now you can print it.
Future object dot get.
So we have to put it into.
Try catch block.
Okay.
So this is I think runnable callable is already we have discussed in depth.
How you can return it.
How you can catch it, right?
So after five seconds this will run.
So it will return it and then it will print it.
Okay.
Hello.
But what if you want to run it more than one time?
Then there is a method called scheduled at fixed rate.
It scheduled a runnable task for repeated execution with a fixed rate.
Let's say that you are doing scheduled at fixed rate.
Right.
So this is runnable.
So I'm just printing system dot out dot println.
Just printing.
Hello.
Initial delay is that say three I want after three seconds every five seconds I want it.
So initial delay.
Is that okay.
First time it should run after three seconds.
After first time it should run every five seconds right.
So that's I want to run it.
Let's say that.
So 123.
So after three second first time it printed.
Now it will wait for five seconds every time.
And it keep on printing.
Hello.
Now again five seconds.
It will wait again.
It will print.
Hello again.
Five second it will wait.
It will print.
Hello.
Right again.
Five second it will be.
And it keep on going.
Right it keep on going.
You have to cancel this based on your requirement.
Otherwise it will not stop.
Let's say that I am doing thread dot sleep.
Let's say after.
10s.
After ten second.
We have to cancel this.
And how to cancel is.
We need a future object here.
So future.
This is runnable right?
So for runnable it doesn't return anything.
So it has to be question mark.
We already discussed this future object.
Now using this future object we can call cancel.
Do you want to interrupt it?
True.
Right.
So after 10s it will interrupt it.
So now let's run it again.
So first three second it will wait.
And then hello will come now five second it will wait.
It will come only after 10s.
It will interrupt it.
So I think I think it got cancelled because ten second might have been finished.
And that's where it is cancelled now.
So now let's understand this use case.
What we are trying to say is that now let's say that previous task itself is taking longer time somehow.
So it is taking six seconds, let's say.
And initial delay.
I have kept it one that okay after first second this thread should get start working thread is thread.
Pick the task thread completed the task.
Okay, so what I'm trying to say is that let's say after one second itself, this task will get be picked
and it will print this thread.
Pick the task.
Now it is waiting for six seconds.
Let's say this task is certain big task so it will taking six seconds.
Now let's say after three seconds itself, another task has to be scheduled, right?
But it cannot be start till the previous one completed.
So now what would happen is that after three seconds, the another task has to be scheduled, right?
It has to be done.
But since previous task is not completed, it cannot be start.
So first previous task should be finished and then only the other task can be initiated, right?
Till then, it will wait into the queue.
Okay.
So see this?
So let's see that.
So after one second thread, pick the task.
Now it is waiting for six second three seconds.
Another task.
See?
That's what I'm trying to say.
Both comes together.
You got it right.
Why?
Both comes together?
Because the previous task is doing.
Waiting for six seconds is taking six second.
The next task is already scheduled.
Now it is waiting in the queue.
As soon as the previous task completed, the next task is picked from the queue.
Got it.
And there is another method called scheduled with fixed delay.
Scheduled with fixed delay.
So this is very very similar to this.
But only difference is instead of fixed rate if I do.
Fixed delay.
Schedule with fixed delay.
Now, what would happen here?
Now, the only change would happen is, let's say the previous task is running only once it gets completed,
then only the timer will start for the second one three seconds and then it will be started.
That.
So after one second task, the task six seconds.
It will wait.
After six second it will.
Now it is waiting three seconds.
Now it will come.
You got it.
Right.
So these are the methods in the schedule thread pool executor.
I hope this one is clear.
Right?
Okay, so another this two topics I will continue into the next video to make sure that video length
is shorter.
Thank you.

--- Java VirtualThreads vs Normal Threads || ThreadLocal in Java ---

Okay guys, let's continue.
So only two topics are left which is thread local and virtual thread versus normal thread.
Right.
So this has been recently asked in an interview.
So let's start with thread local.
Very simple.
So whenever we create a thread whenever we create a thread each thread has this class thread local class
object in it.
Right.
So inside this class there is a variable.
You can see that thread local variable right.
So we can say that each thread got a thread local variable where we can store certain data okay.
So thread local variable hold the value for a particular thread.
It can hold a string.
It can hold integer.
It can hold any object because it's a generic type.
Right.
So means each thread has its own copy of thread.
Local variable.
So we need only one object of thread local class, and each thread can use it to set and get its own
thread variable.
How?
So let's take an example to understand it better.
You will get totally clarified.
So let's say I created an object of thread local, right?
So this is how you can create an object of thread local.
So this is the class thread local class right.
So you can pass it either a string or integer or any object whatever you wanted to store inside it.
Okay.
So now for this object.
Now currently what is the thread going on.
Main thread.
Correct.
So now I am using this thread local object dot set and putting certain string thread dot current thread
dot get name is a string, right?
What is the thread name?
So some string got set into which main thread?
So main thread.
So this is the main thread.
Main thread has something called thread local variable.
Now I have set it with its name.
So what would be the name would be main right.
Because the main thread currently name is this right?
So even though here if you see that I haven't said that, hey put it into my main thread, it automatically
does this thread local.
So here let's see this.
So here in this example when I'm doing thread local dot set what internally it is doing it is first
get the current thread.
What is the current thread.
So now current thread.
What it is is main thread.
Currently it is main thread it is running.
So this thread it will get main thread.
Now, inside this main thread I told you that each thread has a thread local class.
So now here.
If you see that each thread maintains a thread local class, right?
So it will fetch this ultimately.
So it will try to fetch this thread local class for each thread.
And ultimately it will set into that.
Okay so you got it.
We don't have to specify that.
Hey set into main it internally.
It will find out what is the current thread, what is the current thread.
And inside that current thread it will fetch the thread local variable and update it.
Okay, so here in this example I have created only one object of thread local and now first main thread
whatever the current thread.
So main thread is used it to set the name.
Now it created a new thread.
Now new thread is also using the same object thread local object and setting the data which it required.
Now it don't have to tell whether hey, set this into thread one.
It will automatically do.
Whenever it is doing this it will say that hey, what is the current thread?
So current thread is this and then it will put into its own thread.
So when it is thread one current thread and then inside that it will fetch its thread local.
And put its name here, whatever it would be thread pool something one whatever the name it would be
it put it right and the flow begins, continues.
And here what I am trying to do is this I am fetching the data doing from the thread pool thread pool
dot get.
So when I'm doing thread pool dot get right thread local object thread local object dot get right.
So what is the current thread which is here?
Main right.
So from the main it will fetch it get.
So now let's see this.
When you do get what it will do first get the current thread whether main or any other particular thread.
And from there it will fetch the data.
Right.
So if you run it it will print main right.
So only one time you have to initiate thread local thread local class object and you can use this thread
local class object to set the value for each particular thread which you want, right?
Very simple right?
Now there is something that you have to remember to clean up if you are reusing the thread.
Now we have seen a lot of concept of thread pool executor.
Inside that.
Let's say if you have only two threads, thread one, thread two, and there are multiple tasks.
Task one.
Task 2345.
So only these two thread will do all this task.
So it is possible that thread can be reused.
So let's say when you are performing task one and thread one has been used, thread one is performing
the task one and you have set the.
For this thread.
You have set the thread local variable something something related to task one.
I have said something related to task one.
Now let's say this task one is completed.
Now the same thread goes to the pool and it picks let's say task four.
Now task one is now.
Thread one is doing task four.
For now see thread local is set to this thread not task.
So this is thread local variables already set, so we have to clean it up whenever we are reusing the
thread.
Okay, and how to clean it up.
Let's see this.
So currently main thread is going on right.
So here I created a thread thread pool thread local object.
Now here I have created a pool of five.
So means five threads.
Are there thread one.
Thread two.
Thread three.
Thread four, thread five.
Now I am submitting a task first, right?
And whichever it picks, whichever the thread gonna pick it.
It is setting thread local object something.
Some name has been set.
So now let's say thread one has picked this task and set its thread local variable something name?
Whatever the thread name would be.
Okay, now I am submitting 15 more tasks.
Right I am and now I am trying to see I'm fetching.
I'm doing just get.
So generally for this 15 task, 15 new tasks, generally everything should be null thread.
Thread local variable should be null.
But here if you see the output out of this, 15 tasks you got for three thread local variable is already
set.
How?
Because when the whichever task.
So this task this thread.
So this thread has picked this task first.
And we have done the thread local variable set for this thread.
But we haven't cleaned it up.
It completed this task.
It went back to the pool.
And there are another task comes.
So if it picked, if the same thread picks the another task and you will do get you will see that it
is already set.
So we have to clean this up.
And how you can clean this up.
It's simple.
Whenever the task, whenever the thread is about to finish, just call remove thread local object dot
remove.
So when you call remove for that particular thread it will clear the thread local variable.
So now here if you see that I set it do certain task and after that cleaned it up remove.
I've called the remove.
Now for 15 times I have run.
Try to do the get of those 15 all got null.
Nothing is set right.
So always remember to clean this task up right.
If you have a scenario where you are reusing the thread.
Otherwise concept is very very simple thread.
Local variable is for each individual threads.
You can set it the.
You can set the value and then you can get it whenever you require.
But remember to clean it up if there is a scenario where you have to reuse it.
Okay.
Now let's understand virtual thread versus platform or generally called you can say that normal thread
whatever.
Till now we are doing okay.
Let's first understand the motto.
What is the motto of virtual thread?
It is to get higher throughput, not latency.
Very important.
How?
I will tell you.
But remember this point just now it why virtual thread is introduced.
Higher throughput.
Higher throughput means, let's say in one second how many tasks you can perform.
That's what known as your throughput.
Okay, so it is to achieve higher throughput earlier in one second.
You are able to perform 100 requests.
Now in one second you are able to perform 1000 requests.
So your throughput got increased and it's a good thing.
So now let's first understand virtual thread versus normal thread.
So first again normal thread or also known as platform thread till what we were doing now.
So let's say this is my platform thread.
Uh.
Platform thread I will write HT now.
So whenever you create a thread new thread.
Right.
Let's say this is thread T one.
And when you do t one dot start you are starting a new thread.
What JVM will do right?
So this command what JVM will do?
JVM will tell that hey operating system, create one native thread, right?
So it will create one native or or you can say that OS thread.
Right.
So if you are creating ten threads means you are ultimately creating ten OS thread.
Right.
So this you can say that just a wrapper.
It's just a wrapper JVM just provide a wrapper for you.
Platform thread is managed by JVM.
Platform thread is managed by JVM and you can say that it's just a wrapper.
Rapper, rapper of two.
Rapper to what rapper?
Two of OS thread.
So if you remember when we studied the thread, I told you that thread has maintained its own stack,
has program counter and everything.
That's all the properties of OS thread, right?
So JVM is just a wrapper that if you are creating ten threads, it ultimately asked OS to create one
thread for it, right?
So it is a 1 to 1 mapping.
So for so platform thread is nothing, just a wrapper around this.
It's just a wrapper.
So let's let's say that it's a OS thread.
So platform thread is just like this.
It's just a wrapper.
So you are interacting with this ultimately uh at the back you don't know that you are actually interacting
with OS thread only.
So JVM just try to be a mediator between OS thread and you.
Right.
So.
In the simple term, understand that platform thread is maintained by JVM and it's just a wrapper around
OS thread.
So if you are creating ten threads, those ten threads are directly 1 to 1 attached with OS threads.
Okay.
What is the disadvantage of it?
First of all, it's slow.
That's why we have using Thread Pool Executor where we initially itself created let's say ten thread
100 threads, whatever we wanted because thread creation takes time, right?
Thread creation takes time.
That's why we are using thread pool executor that hey, create 100 thread, create 200 thread so that
we don't have to create thread again and again.
And why?
It is slow Because whenever you are calling thread one dot start, you are trying to, uh, you are
trying to create one thread.
Java calls OS, right?
It calls OS, hey, create one OS thread.
So this call is ultimately is a system call.
So system call takes time, right?
Let's say it is taking two millisecond, three milliseconds, whatever time it is taking.
But it takes it's a system call.
And system call is expensive.
So that's why thread creation is always an expensive task.
And that's why we were, uh, thread pool executor helping this, but inside a thread pool executor.
Still, we have to sometimes create new threads, right?
We have minimum pool.
Maximum pool.
We have to create threads.
So this is not completely removed.
What is the second disadvantage?
The second disadvantage is let's say that your platform thread or your thread is waiting.
Thing for certain DB calls.
So let's say there is a DB call right?
And it is fetching the data right.
So let's say you have you have created one thread.
Thread one.
And you know that this thread one is ultimately attached to what one OS thread right.
This is nothing but a thread which we call.
So when you create a thread one it is ultimately attached to OS thread.
Now let's say this thread requires certain DB call.
Now it is uh done some db query, some db query and let's say it needed uh four.
Second, let's say this query running for long and it is running for four second.
So now if you see that this thread is in waiting state, and since because of 1 to 1 mapping, this
OS thread is also not been utilized, it is also waiting because 1 to 1 mapping has been done to this
thread To this thread, right?
It's just a wrapper around this.
So for this four second waiting, this is this OS thread is just waiting.
It's not doing anything.
So that's the second disadvantage that if your thread requires certain input output calls DB calls like
then your OS processing time, your your OS thread might can do certain other tasks, but now it is
totally blocked because it is directly linked with your thread.
Okay, so these are the two disadvantage.
And that's where virtual thread comes into the picture right?
And here if you see that.
I think it has been uh available in from JDK 19.
I can recheck once, but mostly it has been available from JDK 19.
So what does happen in virtual thread is.
So now let's say.
There are two OS threads.
There are two OS thread.
And now JVM can create so many virtual threads.
Right.
It can create so many.
These are just an object.
Now these are totally control of JVM.
It's a JVM object but it has so many you can create so many objects of virtual thread.
Now in the virtual thread concept is that if any thread, if any virtual thread which want to run right
and it's not in waiting state, which is one to execute.
Then only it would be attached to OS thread.
Let's say this two threads want to run.
So this two threads would be attached to OS.
Now let's say this thread wants to goes to the waiting state.
Wants to goes to the waiting state.
As soon as it wants to.
Goes to the waiting state.
What now JVM can do?
Is it detach the link between your OS thread and virtual thread and any other virtual thread which want
to run that attach.
That linking would be done now.
So you understood the concept.
So now here what we have done is there is no 1 to 1 mapping between virtual thread versus OS thread
like platform.
So we can have so many thousands and thousands of virtual threads.
Right.
And any time any virtual thread wants to wait.
Then there would be it.
Link would be detached from the OS thread and any other thread which is waiting for OS thread OS thread
time.
That would provide the connection or the mapping would be done right.
And apart from that all the functionalities are backward compatible.
So whatever.
Till now we have studied in the multithreading.
All thing can be done with the thread also.
So it's totally backward compatible.
Only the difference is how JVM is managing the thread now.
Earlier JVM has a wrapper around OS thread, right?
So everything is OS thread only.
Like say we give a command create a thread start thread.
So JVM just is a mediator.
It's just a wrapper.
It is as OS only to create a thread, right?
So ultimately we are directly dealing with OS threads.
But now here we are dealing with virtual threads.
Right now we are not directly dealing with OS threads.
We are directly dealing with virtual threads.
Now JVM controls like how many OS threads is required based upon the capacity of your system.
Now we don't have control how many OS threads we can create.
We have only control how many virtual thread we can create.
Right now JVM totally controls like which thread is waiting.
If it is waiting, detach the link and provide the link to somebody else.
Some somebody other thread which required instant processing.
Okay, so these are the ways we can create a virtual thread.
So first way is that using thread class thread dot of virtual dot start and runnable tasks.
Right.
So it will create your virtual thread.
Another way is the executor service itself.
What till now what we have seen right executor service dot this method.
new virtual thread per task executor.
So it creates a executor service itself, right?
And using this we can submit one task runnable task right.
We have seen a lot of examples of this creating a thread pool and then submit.
Right.
So the same thing we can use executor dot new virtual thread thread per task executor.
Once we get an executor service we can submit the runnable task right.
So now whatever thread it create it, create virtual thread here.
So that's the only difference between virtual thread versus platform which we also call as normal thread.
Till now what we have seen was normal.
And that's the only difference between virtual why it was introduced.
And I hope with this example you know that.
What's the difference?
Okay guys, if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss more on the comment section, but that's pretty much from my side.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Project Lombok in Java in depth | Lombok top 10 features ---

This site.
Welcome to concept and coding.
And in Java we have almost covered everything.
But there are certain features which has been added into the latest version of Java.
So from now on I will try to cover those features which has been introduced newly, plus also some features
which were there in the older version of Java which we have not covered.
So I would also like to cover those also.
So I want to start with this Lombok first.
Right.
Because this is very popular and highly used in the industry.
So what is Lombok.
It's a Java library which help to reduce the boiler code using annotations.
So during compilation it processes the annotation and inject code into our Java classes.
So if you talk with any of the engineer who is not working with Java, the first thing they will say
that, hey, in Java we have to write too much code, unnecessary code.
Right.
That is nothing but a boilerplate code.
Code?
Apart from business logic.
So you can say that this project is just an initiative to reduce those boiler code.
And this Lombok feature is compatible with Java starting from Java six and supports all later version.
And if you are working in the industry, you might see lot of features in your project.
So first thing first we have to add the library in our pom.xml.
So just pick the latest Lombok version and add it in your Pom.xml.
Now see before I go and tell you what is this just.
See this example where I am using one of the feature of Lombok.
But my IntelliJ is showing me the red line.
Right.
Means it's some kind of a compilation error.
It is showing.
But when I try to run it, it runs properly and printed.
Hello.
How come my IntelliJ is showing compilation error?
But it is working fine.
It's because Lombok will add the code during compile time.
I told you, right?
So Lombok is like we use certain Lombok features annotation and during compilation it adds some code.
So here what I am trying to do is that I am just using Val.
I am not using whether it's a string, whether it's an int or what.
So it determined from the value okay.
We will see that later.
So here I am using one of Lombok feature.
But my IntelliJ.
But your IDE doesn't know that how to treat this well.
So that's why it is show compilation error.
But when you run it during compilation since we are using we have added the Lombok dependency.
See it.
So if you see this dot class, file it properly.
Change well to string right.
It determined from the value.
But our ID doesn't know that.
So for that what we have to do is we have to end the add the Lombok plugin to our ID.
So if you open your IDE settings, click on the plugins.
You have to download this Lombok plugin.
And second thing is that in your build ID settings build execution deployment, there is something called
annotation processing.
You have to enable it.
So these two things, you have to enable it so that your IDE also kind of behave what Lombok is going
to do during the compile time.
Now here, if you see that after doing that my ID is not showing any error.
Okay.
Because now it is able to see what Lombok is going to do during compilation time.
How this is going to treat this well.
My ID is now also aware of that because of this two okay.
So you have to add the pom.xml.
Plus not mandatory but would be helpful for you during coding.
If you add this plugin your ID and enable the annotation processing.
So with that being said, we are good to understand all the Lombok features.
So there are so many features.
So I will cover ten frequently used Lombok features right?
If you know more there is a proper like list of features available you can go through all right over
the internet, but I will cover the top ten features used in the industry.
The first one is well and var.
So instead of actually writing the type, we can use this as the type of local variable declaration.
I have marked it at bold local variable only.
Okay, we will see that type will be informed from the initializer expression.
So what is the type.
So currently let's say we are using val some variable name.
And whatever the expression we will use initialization expression.
From that it will determine what should be the type of this one okay.
So that's what this line means.
And this this one local variable.
So it can be used only for local variables not for fields.
Not for parameters.
Right.
Only local variables which is inside a block.
Okay.
That's what I mentioned in the note.
Only works for local variable not for fields or parameter.
So what is the use of val L marks local variable immutable means it will make them final and where is
just similar, but it do not mark it as final.
That is the only difference.
So take this one example.
So I have created my method.
Okay.
In that I have created well a equals to ten.
Now I am trying to change the value of this a it says that cannot assign a value to final variable.
Why?
Because well makes local variable immutable okay.
Similarly you can use var but it not make it final.
So you would be able to change its value also okay.
And here if you see we don't have to worry about like shall I give it any string object whatever it
will determine from this initialization expression.
Okay.
So that was the first feature.
Second feature was at the rate not non-null.
So it generates a null check statement and throws null pointer exception if value is null, can be used
on a parameter of a method or constructor.
See this example.
So here I am creating one method and on the parameter I am putting at the rate non null.
Okay, and I have just put System.out.println.
This is my Java.
Now when I compile this my how my dot class looks like.
So here if you see that my dot class it added this code for me.
If name.
Because on this parameter I put non null right.
So it put a null check if name equals to equals to null, it throws a null pointer exception with a
message and then else it will put a System.out.println.
So even though my code looked like this after compilation, the Longbox add new code, right?
So that's what at the rate non null is used, it is.
It can be used on a parameter of a method or constructor only.
The third feature is getter and setters.
So if you see this right.
We always have most of our Pojo classes.
We need to write getters and setters of the fields.
So there are a better way that we can annotate any field with getter and setter annotation.
And let Lombok generate the default getter and setter method for us.
So this is very, very highly used in the industry.
You will see this a lot.
So here if you see I have created one Pojo class and these are the fields.
And on top of them I have put the annotation getter at the setter.
And here the same at the right getter at the right center.
Now, if you see the dot class file of this, the Lombok automatically generate for name, it will generate
the get name and the set name.
And for committee it will generate the is committee and the set.
Generally this is the Get and this is generally a set.
Right.
So by default generates getter and setter methods are public.
So here if you see all the getter and setter methods which Lombok generates are public okay.
But we can also control it.
How like this.
So let's say the getter method for name I want a getter method.
Yes.
But what is the access level I want private and the setter method.
What is the access level I want protected?
Like this.
You can make sure that what?
Whether you want to have a private method or protected method or public method.
Right.
So now here, if you see the getter for the name is private, the setter for the name is protected for
the committee member.
I haven't selected the access level, so by default is public.
Okay.
We can also use this annotation at class level two.
So instead of using at each field, we can use at the class level itself.
So here if you see this is a class I can use at the class level itself.
So getter annotation will be applied to all non-static fields right.
So here in this case I have three fields.
One is a static.
So getter field doesn't apply on the static field itself okay.
And the setter method annotation is applied to all non-static and non final fields okay.
so for static method also there would be no setter method and for final for final field.
Also there is no setter method.
It makes sense right?
For final fields means you can't change its value, so you don't need its setter method.
So that's what it says for setter method.
Even non-static setter method annotation is applied to all non-static and non-final fields only.
So here if you see it's dot class file you will see I have used or at the class level.
So for name I will get get name set name for committee members I will get.
It's kind of a is committee member which is a get and it's set and this is static.
So for static there is no getter and also for no setter okay.
And if there is final let's say some variable in some final you will only get its getter.
No setter right.
Because Saturn method is not applicable for final fields only getter you will get get method will get
generated.
While using annotation at class level, if you want to skip the default generation of any field, we
can do that by using access level dot none.
So generally what happens is when you use this annotation at class level, it's like this applied to
all the fields.
But you can also control very granular level.
Let's say that I have used at class level.
So means at this point of time what it knows that I have to generate the getter and setter for all the
fields.
But I can control, let's say, for this field name, I don't want setter method, so I can put at the
setter access level none.
I override it.
So for the name you will got the get, but there is no setter.
But for committee you get both get and set.
Okay, so you can use this to make sure that this either setter or getter method is not generated.
Okay.
The fourth feature is at the rate two string.
So it is used to generate the two string method.
So you might have used in your production code this method which is mostly used for logging right.
Debugging.
Many times we need to print what's there in the object, and it is generally mostly used for logging
and debugging purpose, right?
But you will see that this method in your code.
So now we can use this annotation Lombok feature to generate this method for us.
We don't have to write by ourself.
So if let's say that on this class It has this two fields.
Now if I use the annotation at the two string.
So this is the dot class file.
What it does is that it generates a two string method for me.
And what it returns the class name right after that bracket the field name the value comma separated
another field name and its value bracket close.
So this is the default way of returning the value of this method.
Okay.
But now let's say that hey I have multiple fields.
For some fields I don't want to insert or print into the logs.
Right.
So we can exclude specific fields also.
So now let's say at the rate two string.
But committee member you don't want to print into the logs.
So you can do at the rate two string dot exclude.
So that will not come.
Okay.
Similarly if you want to skip the field name like here it is printing the field name right.
This is the field name.
This is the field name you don't want because you know that the size of the locks increase, right?
Unnecessary.
So if you don't want the field name, then what you can do is like add the rate to string.
Include field names equals to false.
So now here if you see that only value is getting printed no field name okay.
There is another called explicitly selecting the fields.
So now let's say that I have put at the rate two string on the class.
But I have also made that only explicitly included equals to true means only those fields on which I
have put this at the rate two string dot include, those only will get added or used.
Okay, so even though I have used at the rate two string at the class level, I have made that only
explicitly included.
If it is true then only it would get should be used.
So we have to use this at the string dot include.
Okay then next feature we have is that no our constructor required args constructor all our constructor
from the name.
It's very clear no args constructor means generate no argument constructor.
All args constructor means generate constructor with all the fields required args constructor.
Generate constructor with only final and not fields.
Now at this point of time, you can.
Suddenly one question comes to your mind.
How come in the previously non null we mentioned that it is used only at the parameter and constructor,
right?
Not on the fields.
So I will show you how it's used on the fields, how it is used.
It is mostly used on constructor only.
Okay.
But now I will tell you.
So see this example.
So on this class I have used all this annotation.
Know our constructor.
All our constructor required a constructor.
So here if you see I have one name boolean committee member and one non null value.
So here it says that first it generated a no arg constructor.
This one.
Then it generated a all our constructor.
So all arg mean all three values name, committee member and age.
Now since age I have put non null right.
So here if you see generally now it used as a parameter of a constructor right.
So here it put a null check if A is equals to equal to null throw null pointer exception right.
Otherwise assign the value.
Initialize the value right.
And the third is required our constructor.
So here if you see required as constructor is only used for final and non null fields.
So only for this non null age.
This constructor is created with only age and since age is non null.
So it puts null check first and then initializes it.
Right.
Then next feature which Lombok provide is equals and hashCode annotation.
I have already explained this equals and hashCode method in this Java HashMap.
Internal working right.
What is the contract between equals and hashCode and how internally it works?
So generally we can use Lombok to create the equals method, a hashCode method for us.
Okay.
So by default it uses all non static and non transient fields.
So see this example on this class I have put this annotation at the equals and hashcode okay.
And I have also made sure that this committee member I don't want to include it into the equals and
hashcode method, I want to exclude it right.
So we can do that.
The same thing I showed you previously right.
We can include we can exclude individual values also.
So I want to exclude it.
So I added this.
Now if you see the dot class file generated it created my equals method for me with only this field
right.
Statics are skipped.
And even this one which I excluded that is also skipped, and it is also created a hashCode method for
me.
Okay.
And the code which it generates follow the contract which equals and hashCode method follows.
So we don't have to worry about that.
Okay.
Then there is another feature is called data.
So data is like you can say that again a shortcut for all this one.
So it's like plus plus plus plus plus data is equivalent of two string equivalent hashcode getter on
all fields setter on all non-final fields.
And it's a required args constructor.
So here if you see this is my code.
I have one field name string, one final and one at the rate non-null, and I have just put at the rate
data.
And when I compile it, see the amount of code it generated for me, right?
So what it does, it created one two string method for me.
So here if you see the two string method is created, the hashcode and equals method is created.
Okay.
Now here if you see the getter on all fields so means name age address.
So get name get age get address.
Okay.
The setter on non-final fields right.
So you will find a setter for name.
So here you will see setter for name and setter for address.
And since address is non-null it put a null check first and then initializes it.
But there is no setter method for the age okay.
And then required args constructor.
So required args constructor means constructor for either non-null and final.
So one constructor for non-null one address and the final variable, right?
So you can say that at the rate data is just a shortcut for all of this.
Right.
And see the lot of code it has generated for us.
Just our code is just this.
Similarly, we have add the rate value.
You can say that it's an immutable version of data.
So what it does is it made all fields private and final first immutable version.
So it make it all fields private and final.
It made class itself made final.
It can't be subclassed right.
The setters are not generated.
Why?
Because since all fields are made final for final no setter class.
So no setter methods are generated.
Two strings and equals and hashCode method generated like data getter on all fields will be generated.
Now at the rate required as constructor would be applied.
But since all fields are final.
Means all fields would be present into the constructor, which is equivalent to.
Now all last constructor you know write required as constructor only have two kind of.
Take care of final and final and non null.
Now since this value makes all fields private and final, so means all the fields would be there in
the constructor.
And since all the fields are there in the constructor, it is equivalent to all args constructor.
So here this is my code and I have put at the right value.
Now here if you see this is the dot class file.
It generated lot of code two string equals and hashcode method generated right.
And the getter method for all It generated the getter method for all.
And also here, if you see it created a constructor since it made all final private final, right.
So all final one would be their name age address which is now equivalent to all args constructor.
Okay one.
Another feature is builder annotation.
So in the LED playlist I have told about the builder pattern.
Right?
So builder pattern is used for two things.
One is that we can create object parts by parts.
Second helps to create object immutable.
Okay so I have already explained how builder design pattern works.
So here in Java let's say for this class you have to have a builder pattern.
All you have to do is this.
Use this annotation at the right builder.
If you see dot class, file it.
Create one builder class for you.
It creates one builder class for you.
And here if you see it has like you can set the name, you can set the age and you can create it in
parts by part.
The return value is still builder right?
And later on when you do build then only it creates a ultimate object.
So that's what we do in the builder pattern.
So now all this code is generated by this annotation itself.
So now here all we can do is like test Pojo dot builder right.
So here is the dot builder.
It will create a builder object.
This class which is newly created.
Now we can set part by part.
We can set age.
We can set name okay.
So age is still return.
The builder object name, still return the builder object and later on when all created when do call
build ultimately return the test Pojo object.
And now once you get the object, can you change it?
There is no setter value.
Okay, so here if you see in the test Pojo there is no setter methods.
So that's why I generally say that builder pattern also helps to achieve immutability.
We can easily achieve that.
So if you want to know more about in-depth the builder pattern you can check this video.
Otherwise, uh, if it is already clear then we can directly use this annotation and our work is done.
And the last feature which is highly used is the cleanup.
It ensures that the given resources automatically cleaned up before execution path exit the current
scope.
So here if you see this is my Java class I am using an file input stream.
Want to read some data from the file?
I am reading it right and here if you see I haven't closed it all, I used it on this input stream I
just put at the rate clean up.
Now if you see the dot class file it put try catch finally block for me and in the finally block it
is closing it.
So this is taking care of it.
So any resource which you want to make sure that after the current scope it should get closed, we can
use at the rate cleanup annotation.
So these are top ten features of the Lombok.
There are many which you can go through.
But if you are going through your live production ready code this ten, you will see very very frequently
used.
And if you have doubt with any of this feature, let me know.
We can discuss further into the comment section.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java 21 : SequencedCollection, SequencedSet and SequencedMap ---

Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in this video we are going to cover a feature which has been introduced in Java 21.
So three new interfaces sequence Collection, Sequence set and Sequence map.
These three interfaces are added in existing Java collection hierarchy.
So before we start understanding about these new interfaces, let's first see existing collection hierarchy.
And where does this new interfaces exactly fit into that okay.
Then we understand like what is this and why it has been added.
So if you recall this is how our existing hierarchy looks like.
We have already covered each one of this in depth okay.
And we have covered in multiple parts.
So kindly have a look if you have any doubts with any of the collection type.
Now let's see the new collection hierarchy The Java 21.
How does it look like?
So focus on this yellow one.
So this is where this three interfaces has been fit.
Okay.
So see this one.
So all this yellow one is the new changes okay.
So sequence collection is now a child of collection.
Earlier list was child of it.
Now list is child of sequence collection.
List extends sequence collection and sequence collection extends collection.
Similarly, DK is also now extends sequence collection.
Okay.
And here we have added new interface sequence set and which is also extends sequence collection okay.
And here if you see earlier linked has set was implementing set.
Now it's implementing Sequence.
Set and sorted.
Set also now extend to sequence set and sequence set is extending set.
So this is two interfaces interface one, interface two and the third interface inside a map where a
sequence map has been added.
And this all yellow line is.
The changes has been made in the Java 21.
So sorted map now extended sequence map.
Sequence map is now extending the map and linked HashMap which were earlier was implementing map.
Now it is implementing sequence map.
Okay, so this three.
This is how the in Java 21 plus, this is how the Java collection hierarchy gonna look like.
But the first and the foremost question which comes to all our mind is okay, these are the questions
if we answer these three questions we will fully understand.
Like, the first thing which comes to my mind is how we determine this position.
That list should be the child of list should extend this DIC should extend it.
Sequencer should extend this.
How we should determine it.
Like what is the logic behind it?
Right?
I don't want to muck it up like okay, this is where the sequence collection has to be.
And these are all the types interfaces.
It should extend it.
I don't want to muck it up, but I want to know the reason why these yellow boxes new interfaces is
put here.
Okay, so this is my first question which comes to all our mind.
What's the criteria of putting this interfaces at this specific place.
Like I can see it left out queue and priority queue.
Why why not include those.
So here if you see it made DK extend sequence collection.
It made list extend sequence collection.
But why not Q why not priority Q right.
So since DK extending it so means all are covered here.
All are covered here.
So everything is so this is covered and this is also covered.
But this left out Q left out priority Q left out has said left out.
Why.
So that's the first question which comes to our mind.
What's the reason of putting this interface at a specific place.
And why not include queue priority queue?
Another.
The second question is why exactly this interface required?
Okay, I understood why they have put at this place.
Let's say I understood, but why it's actually needed at the first place.
Okay, that we also have to know what gap exactly they are trying to fill, which is Present in before
Java 21 versions and the third is VI sequence set is needed.
Why not directly sequence collection is sufficient.
So one question is why linked hash set is implementing sequence set?
Why not directly sequence collection?
What is the purpose of sequence set?
So these three questions which I think there might be more which might be coming to my mind, but I
believe that if we able to find an answer of this three like this topic would be like on our tips.
We don't have to remember this collection or we don't have to remember muck it up anything.
Okay, so let's start with the first why.
What's the criteria of putting this interfaces at the specific place and why we left out queue and priority
queue.
And also one more thing before we start the point one it is very important because if we understood
the point one when properly we will actually get the answer of the remaining two inside the one itself.
So our answer of two and three is actually inside one itself.
Okay, so go through this one very, very thoroughly in depth and get it properly because the remaining
answer you will find it here itself.
Let's start.
So any collection which follows below condition we can term it as sequence.
So we are saying that right list is now extending sequence collection.
So what are the conditions we need to know.
That list should follow.
Then it can be like yes it can extend sequence sequence collection or sequence set or sequence map anything
okay.
So these are the three conditions which a collection type should follow so that they can be considered
as yes, they are sequenced.
The first is predictable iteration.
So predictable iteration means let's say you have certain sequence one two, three.
Okay.
Now in the collection if you insert them.
So what are the two types of ordering.
One is insertion order, second is sorted order.
Okay so there are list follows.
Insertion order.
The the way you insert the record it stays as it is.
So let's say that first I added one then two, then it three.
So it's a predictable iteration.
No matter how many times you fetch and iterate you will get a consistent behavior.
Okay.
Similarly let's say any sorting uh, you are using any sorted set, sorted map or.
Right.
So in decreasing order let's say so it will always like 3 to 1.
So it's a predictable iteration means elements are written in consistent and well-defined order every
time we iterate over the collection.
So if a collection maintains element in insertion order or sorted order, then we can say it follows
predictable iteration.
Okay.
So this is the first requirement.
Clear it properly because insertion order.
If the collection is following insertion order doesn't mean it's a predictable iteration even the sorted
order.
So let's say that you have a values list of values is one two, three.
But during sorting it is storing as 3 to 1, even though it is changing the sequence.
But it's predictable.
Predictable iteration means it's consistent behavior.
No matter.
No matter how many times you fetch it, the iteration which you will get is predictable.
Consistent.
3 to 1.
Only 3 to 1 only.
Right.
So our collection can maintain in either insertion order or sorted order.
Both.
Very important.
Okay.
The second condition is the collection provides support for access or manipulation of the first and
last element.
So whatever the collection would be, let's say my collection has some value of five.
My insertion, let's say my collection is following some insertion order of I inserted first five,
then ten, then seven, then 12.
So this is my insertion order.
This is how I am inserting the elements into my collection.
Now if my collection is supporting that, yes I can.
I can add an element in first place or at last place.
Okay.
Or so access or manipulate means you can add, you can fetch, you can remove at first place or similarly
at the at at end also.
Okay.
You can add you can fetch, you can remove at the last of the element.
Then also is an important requirement for a collection to be considered as a sequence.
So this is the second condition.
So collection provides support for access or manipulation of the first and the last element.
Collection support.
Reversible view.
Reversible view means.
So let's say that if this is your collection, is it possible to get a reverse view of.
It means 12 710 five reversible view.
I am not reversing the collection itself.
I am not creating new collection.
No, the underground collection is the same.
Underground collection is same.
only I'm getting a view of it.
12.
Seven.
Ten.
Five.
If I am changing somewhere in it, it will ultimately change in the underground collection itself.
Okay, so is it possible to get a reversible view?
If all these three conditions are satisfied, then that collection is termed as yes, it can be.
Termed as sequenced okay.
That's what this three conditions is used to determine what all collection type can extend this sequence
collection or sequence set.
Okay.
So let's go one by one and see.
So this is condition one predictable iteration.
This is condition two access and manipulation of the first and last element.
And this is condition three.
Now let's see that one by one each collection type quickly.
So list.
Yes.
Predictable iteration.
Yes.
It follows insertion order.
So the way you insert a record into this collection, it will follow that only.
And whenever you fetch it you will get a consistent order okay.
So yes it follows predictable iteration.
Can you access first and last element.
Yes.
This is it will return you first and list dot get and the last index.
So it will give you the last.
You can do access.
Can you add.
Yes.
List dot add zero element.
It will add at first and this will add at end.
Can you remove it.
Yes I can remove it like this.
So yes list provide the access and manipulation operation on the first and last operation.
Can you reverse it?
Yes, I can reverse it.
So here is the list okay.
Now I can just simply call collection dot reverse list and it got reverse.
reversed.
So all three conditions are satisfied.
So it can be a part of sequence collection.
Okay.
So all we have to do is just check all this three condition for all collection type.
And we know that.
Should we add it into under sequence collection or not.
Or we have to skip it.
Similarly DK it follows some sometime we call DAC dequeue like whichever you feel it's right.
Uh generally it's pronounced as DAC.
So it follows insertion order.
Right.
Now here how you can access the first and last element.
Get first.
Get last.
How you can add it.
Add first at last and remove it.
Remove first, remove last.
So all access and manipulation supported for the first and last element.
And there is also a reverse method available.
So all three are satisfied.
It can be part of sequence collection.
Queue.
Queue follows insertion order.
Good.
Predictable.
The first condition.
Predictable iteration is satisfied.
Second, does access and manipulation of the front.
And the last element is possible.
So queue follows Fifo insertion at back and remove from front.
So if you are accessing it there is a method called peek.
It returns head.
But can you access the last element in queue.
No.
Okay.
Can you add element at first?
No.
Queue says that queue follows Fifo.
You can only add element to the tail.
Can you remove from the first element?
Yes.
Poll.
Because queue follows.
First Fifo.
First in.
First out.
Okay.
And here if you see that remove last element it's not possible.
Okay.
Can you reverse a cue not supported directly.
So here, if you see that there is an issue with this two conditions.
So that's why cue is left out.
It's not part of any sequence collection.
Similarly priority queue.
So see priority queue.
Do not follow any insertion or sorted order.
Why?
Because internally it uses heap.
It only guarantee whether the head is either maximum or minimum depends upon the comparator which we
are using.
But the iteration order is not properly sorted or consistent, only it guarantee about the top element
okay.
It will always either give you maximum or minimum depending upon which priority queue you are using.
Minimum or maximum.
But the rest of the values are not consistent or not properly sorted.
Okay.
So that's why order is not maintained.
And since order is not maintained like first and last.
Can you add it or remove it?
Doesn't matter.
Right?
Because if the order is not even maintain this and this reversal is not applicable itself, it's not
supported actually.
So you can say that this is very important condition if order is preserved, if it is a following,
stern insertion or sorted order, then only these two matters.
You can reverse it or you can add it first, add it last.
But if order is not even maintained, how you can add an element or start or at first or last because
it can be stored anywhere.
So that's why priority queue is also skipped from the sequence collection.
Now let's come to Hesset.
Hesset is also skipped, right?
Because it also do not follow insertion or sorted order, right?
So that's why the addition of first and last or manipulation is and the reverse is also not applicable
on it.
That's why hashset is also skipped from the sequence collection sequence.
Got it.
Linked has said so.
Linked has set follows insertion order if you remember it internally.
Uses doubly linked list also.
To maintain a insertion order.
Okay so you can access the first element.
You can access the last element but you have to do manual iteration.
It's kind of a linked list right.
So we have to do manual iteration like linked list dot iterator dot.
Next you can iterate to the next element till.
You can also iterate till last element.
So you can access it.
You can add element at first.
Also you can add element at the end.
Also methods are not there, but since it's a doubly linked list.
It's a doubly linked list.
It is possible.
It is possible to add element at first.
So generally the current method which is exposed in linked has said is add, which generally add to
the end if you want to add at first.
Currently today method is not available, but is it possible?
Yes.
Because doubly linked list it follows.
It is possible to add an element at first.
Okay.
That's why I made it yellow today.
Method is not there to add it first, but it can be supported because the structure data structure it
uses is doubly linked list through which we can add it easily.
Only it's we need to extend the functionality.
Similarly remove.
Yes, we can remove the first and last element.
All we require is manual iteration.
We have to manually iterate and then remove it.
Similarly reverse.
So see it follows again I told you doubly linked list.
We can get a reverse view because we can iterate in opposite direction, also because of the doubly
linked list.
But today method is not there.
But this functionality can be written.
So that's why I made it yellow.
Today's not there, but we can extend the functionality because it follows doubly linked list and then
doubly linked list.
You can iterate from the back also.
So since the data structure internally uses can support all these three, that's why it is also kept
under sequence collection.
Or we have specifically put into sequence set.
Now one more question.
I told you right.
The the part, the first question which we are trying to find an answer that itself will help us to
find out the remaining question also.
So why sequence set is needed.
So here if you see linked has said is kept under sequence set.
Why?
Why not inside sequence collection itself?
We put linked has set.
Why not directly under it.
Why we need it under first sequence set.
Okay.
So see the main reason is the collection can support duplicate like your list.
But the set do not support duplicate do not support duplicate.
No duplicates are allowed okay so linked has set.
That's why a new interface was introduced.
Sequence set in which no duplicates are allowed okay so if you see the diagram it will now become clear
why it was added.
So linked has set here.
In this no duplicate is allowed.
And here if you see list duplicate is allowed DK duplicates are allowed.
So that's why it is made.
A new sequence set is created because here only unique values are stored.
And then this sequence set is extending the sequence collection.
It has all the functionalities like get first, get last at first at last.
So all the functionality which sequence collection is going to expose this also has it, but it additionally
makes sure that the values are unique.
There should be no duplicate.
Okay, so that's why linked has set is a child of sequence set, not sequence collection.
Okay then we have sorted set sorted.
Set follows sorted order.
So it's a consistent behavior whatever Any time you try to fetch a value, you will fetch in a particular
sequence.
You will not get randomly.
So now here, if you see if I am trying to access it, you have a sorted set, right?
Let's say you have created three set which is a sorted set.
You can access the first element.
You can also get the last element dot last.
You can add and you can also add it.
So it goes to first if it is the smallest.
And if you are adding a value 25 it goes to the last if it is a largest value okay.
So since it is internally doing sorting this value, actually if you are storing it two it will goes
to a proper order.
So there is nothing like add first and last that doesn't you can say that are meaningful in the case
of sorted order, if you have used a value which is smallest, then it will goes to the first.
If you have used a value which is the largest, it will goes to the last.
Okay, so it's possible if you give me the smallest value I can, it can append to the first.
If you give me the largest value, it can append to the last.
Remove.
Yes, you can remove like this dot.
Remove and give the first element remove.
Give the last element.
So yeah all possible.
Similarly, can we do a reverse.
Yes.
There is an operation called descending iterator available okay.
So tree set when you create it it has a method called descending iterator okay.
And through this you can now iterate in opposite direction.
So all three possible.
And again it's a set means no duplicates.
That's why it's kept as a child of sequence set.
Okay.
So this part is clear right now we don't have to remember right.
Why list is made a child of this one.
Why do why we left out Q why we left out priority.
Q why we left out?
Hashtag right and why sequence that is required?
Why not directly sequence selection only?
Okay.
Now let's come to this another map part so that also we will see that we have left out HashMap and left
out hash table.
Why.
So here if you see HashMap maintain order no.
No insertion order no sorted order.
That's why.
So that's why these two also not applicable okay.
So it's not applicable.
Hash table again hash table also do not maintain any order.
So that's why easy we both these two other conditions is not supported because order itself is not maintained
okay.
So that's why it is also skipped to be part of any of the sequence interface.
Then we have linked HashMap again similarly to what we have seen before.
Linked HashMap internally uses.
Doubly linked list.
So it follows insertion order and similarly exactly the same.
There are minor methods and like it's a map right.
So you have to iterate differently.
But we can do access.
We can do add and we can remove it okay.
Similarly we can reverse it.
Today method is not there.
But yes it is possible because it follows internally doubly linked list.
So that's why I made it yellow.
We can do it.
Similarly what we have seen it right.
Linked has set similarly like this okay.
So that's why we have made it as a part of sequence map.
Sorted map.
Again same thing follows sorted order.
Yes.
You can access first key.
Last key.
You can put it put first.
Put last.
Doesn't matter because it's sorted okay.
So it will automatically sorted according to the value key.
Remove pole, first entry pole last entry.
and there is reverse.
There is a method called descending map.
You can use it to iterate in reverse direction.
So all three are possible sorted map.
So that's why it's made a child of sequence map okay, so that's why here sorted map and linked hash
map are child of sequence map.
Now only one question left unanswered what exactly these interfaces are trying to fix.
What are the gaps which are there?
Which are trying to fill?
Why exactly this interface is required?
Different ways to ask a question.
But the question is one why?
Why you need these interfaces.
So if we observe the collections, if you observe the above table which we have created, you will find
an answer of this here itself.
Just focus here.
All those operations, all those collection type which supports which can be termed as sequence, right.
Just see if you want to access the first last element or you want to add for list.
It's a different operations do dot get dot add dot remove for dequeue get first get last add first at
last, remove first, remove last.
There is a different method for reversing dot reverse for its collection.
Dot reverse for linked HashMap linked hash set.
It's different right?
You have to treat it.
Linked set dot iterator dot.
Next you have to iterate it right.
Similarly for reversal there is nothing but we have to create new.
Similarly for sorted and sorted set dot first dot last dot add dot remove for reversal dot descending
iterator.
Are you able to catch a gap?
Each collection type has different method.
Why?
Because there is no common interface.
Okay, if you observe the collection which are marked as sequence, we will find that get first, get
last at first, add last, remove first, remove last and reversing the view of the collection.
There is no common interface.
Each collection have their own method.
So we have to remember.
Okay, if I have to use list then it was like a dot.
Like uh, hey, add me at zeroth index, add this element.
Hey, if I am using deck, It was like at first, hey, if I'm using this, it is something like this.
So you have to remember and it's very difficult to maintain.
Okay.
So this is one of the biggest gap that there is no common interface present.
And for all this operation and each collection type has their own functionality for that one.
So it makes our, you can say that code little bit difficult to maintain.
And for as an engineer we have it's like challenge to remember.
Like if you are using DK what's the method for fetching the first and last for adding the first and
last, or for removing the first and last or for reversing it?
So that's where the sequence collection sequence set sequence map trying to fill up.
So here if you see sequence collection has this method at first.
At last.
Get first, get last, remove first, remove last and reverse.
Simple.
Now, no matter if it is list or your linked hash set.
Whatever.
Right?
They all follow the same because sequence set is also a child of it.
So even the linked hash said will have a same method itself.
Now we don't have to like remember okay for DAC, what's the method for adding a first position?
It would be same for list again same.
Similarly for sequence map since it's a map key value right.
First entry.
Last entry pole.
First entry pole.
Last entry.
So it's like a remove.
It's like a get first get last remove first remove last.
Right.
It's add Put first, put last right.
Then if you want only a key set, you will get all the key set.
If you want all the values, you can get all the values right.
You can even get reversed, right?
You can even iterate in the reverse direction also.
So all this is possible now because of this new interfaces.
So now the same all the collection type which are earlier we marked as.
That's it can it's solves all three condition and can be termed as sequence.
Now we will see all those.
Now see the change.
You will automatically see yourself.
So list which was following insertion order.
Now let's say that how we will do all this operation in Java 21 plus okay.
So now let's say that I have a list value BCD okay.
Now I want to add I can do simply get first, get last so it will return me be get last.
D you want to add?
What are the methods.
So it's there at first, at last.
So I'm using those only at first A.
So now A is added at first at last z.
So z is added at last remove remove first remove last.
So it remove a and then ultimately it removes z at last.
Reverse list dot reverse you get the reverse C.
Very simple very clean right.
And the same thing we will gonna do for everyone.
We don't have to now remember what method for deck.
So it follows also insertion order.
So this is how we create a deck I have created let's say BCD again get first.
Get last at first.
At last remove first remove last reverse similar like list all this because of this interface.
Now they have a common method.
Similarly, linked has set okay.
Follows insertion order.
So here if you see in the linked hash set I created a set linked hash set b, c, d.
If you want to access get first get last the first is b, last is D.
If you want to add add first at last.
Now it's possible, right?
You added A at the first and Z at the last okay.
Now you know that set do not contains duplicate.
So now if I say this now my current value is a b c d z.
Now I am trying to add c.
So what it will do is at first c.
So it will since duplicate is not allowed and c is already present, what it will do is it will take
it to the first itself.
So my it become comes from this position to first.
So c a d c a b d z is now my new Collection.
You want to remove it?
Remove first.
Remove last.
Same method.
Reverse.
Right.
Very very simple.
So sorted set.
So sorted.
Set.
You can say that it follows sorted order.
So now I have created a sorted set here okay 14 five seven.
So internally it is stored in a sorted form.
So five 714 let's say I'm storing in ascending order.
So get first get last five and 14.
It will return.
Now if you try to call at first at last.
So now here if you see at uh at first at last methods are there.
Right.
But for sorted set does does this makes sense.
If you add two at first, will it add it at the first place.
Are you sure.
No.
Right.
It depend upon the order like in the sorting order.
If in the sorting, if it is the smallest, it will only get added at first.
Okay, so that's why at first and at last, if you use it, it will throw unsupported operation exception
for sorted set.
Okay.
Because at first at last does not make sense.
All you can do is add.
If it is a smallest value, it will automatically get added at start.
If it is a largest value, it will automatically get added at the end.
If it is the smallest, it will be stored at the first.
Okay, so that's why if you use at first, at last in the sorted map, it will throw unsupported operation
exception.
So yeah remove remove first, remove last and the reverse.
Same thing.
Similarly you can go through like all of this thing linked HashMap.
Same thing.
I have just created a map.
Now all I'm using the same methods which is present here.
First entry.
Last entry.
Like it made very easy.
Uh, so this is my map 100.
So this is my key value.
First entry is this 100 B last entry is 300 D.
If you want to start at first, just put key value.
So now I see that 400 key.
And the value a is now at the first okay.
Internally it uses doubly linked list.
That's why it is possible okay.
So all this operations are possible.
Put first put last pole first entry pole.
Last entry reverse.
Similarly sorted map like very very similar to sorted set.
You can go through it very very similar right.
If you use put first put last you will get unsupported operation exception.
Because this doesn't make sense.
Because it is a sorted map.
It will sort it internally either ascending or descending.
If you putting a value, let's say if it is a map, it sort the order based on keys.
So based on the keys it decides its position.
If you put it, say that hey put it first.
But based on the ordering, it says that it should come at the third position in the ordering.
Then it puts it into the third.
It will not put it into the first.
So that's why these two operation does not make sense.
So it will throw unsupported operation exception.
So for sorted map you have to use simple put and it will put it into its proper order.
So key is 50 very less.
So it will come at first 400 is max.
So it will go at n.
Similarly remove and reverse.
So if you see that all our three are doubts are clarified with this.
Okay.
Now we know the reason.
What is the criteria of putting into a specific place why it left out.
Q we know the conditions.
What exactly this interface is required?
What are the gaps?
We know that there was a missing interface.
That's why each collection type are using their own method to do at first, at last, get first, get
last, remove first, remove last whatever.
Now, because of a common interface, it's a very cleaner way to operate on the first and the last element,
or even doing the reverse of a collection.
Right?
Reverse is just a view.
It's not changing the underlying collection.
Okay.
And why sequence set is needed I already explained because sequence set no duplicates are allowed.
And in this collection duplicates are allowed.
That's why we needed a different set.
So do practice with your hand.
You will get it like.
And also I hope if you understand it, you don't have to remember this collection hierarchy.
Like where exactly?
Like what all should be the child of uh, new interface and why we have skipped and all.
So if you understand it properly, you will create your own hierarchy diagram by yourself.
And if you have any doubt, let me know in the comment section.
We can discuss further.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java 17: Sealed Classes and Interfaces ---

Share on this site.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today in Java we are going to cover sealed classes and interfaces which has been introduced in Java
17.
So before we start let's first understand the problem why this has been introduced.
So in my view the biggest problem is lack of control in inheritance.
So consider this example that if you have created an interface shape now do you have a control like
which class can implement it or not.
Circle rectangle triangle.
Or it can be anything which can directly implement shape.
Similarly, the subclasses of circle can be anything, right?
We have zero control and it goes on like you have no control over this hierarchy, like where it will
stop.
So it is not possible to control the hierarchy.
Any class can join it by implementing the interface or extending the class.
Even we did not plan for it Like.
So let's say that this class I have not even planned.
But still it came because I have no control.
I cannot prevent someone from extending the parent class and adding it.
What if some engineer added it?
So because of that, whenever you add a code, you add like this.
Hey, if it is a circle, yes, I can handle it.
Hey, if this shape is a rectangle, yes, I can handle it.
And you also have to put else condition that hey, if any unknown child comes of a shape which I don't
know which I can't handle, then do this default thing.
Similarly, when you do a switch, you put always default so that okay it's circle I can handle, rectangle
I can handle, but if there is something which I can't handle then this default should run okay.
And many times it possible that if you add something in the child, there is some silently breaks in
the code if you are not handling it properly.
So that's where to bring the control troll the seed classes and interfaces comes into the picture.
So consider this example now.
So now let's say shape.
We have a shape interface.
Now we have to put a sealed keyword here seed.
And the seed is used with permits.
So what it says that that this interface shape can be subclassed but only by its own permits list.
Okay.
What sealed says that yes, you can create a subclass of it, but whatever the classes or interfaces
you have defined here, those only can directly implement or extend it.
So now in the permits I have only put circle and rectangle.
So when you create a class circle implement shape it is allowed.
When you put class rectangle implement shape.
This is also allowed.
But when you try to put like a triangle implement shape, it is not allowed because in the permit list
it is not there.
Also, one more thing is that each classes which are defined into the permit list.
Okay.
Or you can say that each subclass, each subclass, you have to now choose whether.
Between final.
Permit or non sealed.
So we have to decide between these three.
So now let's say circle.
Do I want a further subclass of it.
No I don't want to allow it.
This is the end of this branch.
So I choose final.
Final means no further subclass of this is allowed okay then the second is non sealed.
Let's say that I want to open this branch.
Yeah.
For this rectangle there can be multiple unknown Childs can come like we don't know.
There can be many subclasses classes, right?
I don't want to put some restriction.
Then you put Non-sealed means this class or interface is open to be extended by any number of childs.
Okay.
Similarly there is something called sealed permit again.
So like if I want to restrict I can use a sealed.
Then I will put permit only by let's say rectangle colored rectangle or non colored rectangle, something
like that.
Then only the subclass of this can be only this colored rectangle and non colored rectangle.
That's all.
Not not others are allowed.
So for any subclass we have to pick one of it.
So few things we have to consider.
Permit type should be direct subclass of the sealed interface.
So now here if you see in the permit I have choose circle and rectangle.
So one condition says that this circle and rectangle should be a direct child of the shape.
Okay, this shape is the sealed one, right?
So whichever interface is sealed and whatever the permit you have used, those should have direct child
of subclass of this.
It should not be like this.
Hey, I have a shape.
Then I have some different class x, y, z and then I have circle.
Still, circle is a child of shape, but it's not direct.
So that's the first condition.
Like whatever the classes or interface you have mentioned into the permit list, those should be the
direct of this sealed one.
Permit type should be either final sealed and non sealed.
That I told you that whatever it is present here or whatever the child you have present here, you have
to choose whether you can define it as a final or sealed permit or non sealed.
One of them.
You have to choose.
All permit types should be present future classes or interface not considered.
Now let's say that while you are designing you say that.
Okay.
Circle, rectangle and triangle is also allowed.
But you have only current implementation present for circle and rectangle.
But you can't add future.
Okay.
Triangle.
Let me add triangle so that in future I should not add it.
Okay.
So it should be allowed.
No.
Whatever present classes present today those only.
So their implementation should be present in simple terms.
Whatever the classes you are present into the permit list, their implementation should be present.
So let's understand this with this example.
Okay.
Let's say we want to achieve this.
I have an interface shape and I want to restrict it with this circle polygon and abstract shape.
So I have created an interface shape and I want to restrict it right.
So for restriction which one to use.
Sealed permit.
So I put a seal I put a permit I want to allow only circle polygon on abstract shape circle polygon
and abstract shape.
Okay.
Now let's move to circle.
So class circle implement shape.
So this is allowed because it is direct.
It's in the permit list.
And it's a direct child of this sealed one okay.
Now any further subclass allowed for this circle.
No.
So that's why I picked final.
So I stopped here itself.
Now no subclasses allowed here after this circle.
Now polygon.
Polygon is an interface okay.
So here if you see in polygon I can have many child as I wanted.
Okay.
So further subclass allowed.
So I don't want to put any restriction here.
So interface polygon extend shape okay.
So it's a direct child.
Now I put non seal means I don't want to put any restriction on this polygon.
So I open this branch.
You can see that I can I open this branch.
So hexagon I can have any mother.
Other classes also.
Okay, so we can do that.
We can open any branch we want.
And if you want to put a restriction you can put restriction here.
You can put restriction here like okay further down you don't want further branches.
You put restriction here okay.
So that is allowed if you want to restrict let's say hexagon further you put sealed permit.
Like what.
All classes are now allowed within hexagon.
So you can control that only.
So at any level you can control this like whether you want further child or not or whether you want
to seal it or not.
Similarly abstract shape I want to restrict it with only rectangle and triangle.
These two I want to restrict it.
So abstract class abstract shape which implements the shape direct child of this one, then I want to
restrict it.
Right.
So I put sealed and permit I only allow rectangle and triangle.
That's all.
Only these two are allowed okay.
So only these two children's will be allowed.
So I put rectangle which extends the abstract shape.
So now rectangle is a direct child of this abstract shape sealed one and further child of rectangle
allowed.
No.
So I put final.
Now triangle extends abstract shape.
Now triangle I want to allow further subclasses allow I don't want to put I want to open this branch
also.
So I put non sealed okay.
So now you can have any number of childs no problem at all.
So this is an open branch okay.
So it's a very simple topic but very useful when you want a control over your hierarchy.
So if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further into the comment section.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java 14: Switch Expressions Deep Dive ---

This site.
Welcome back to the channel.
So in Java 14 there are a lot of announcement has been made in switch.
So we will cover that today.
So we have already covered switch statement before.
So if you haven't seen that kindly have a look.
So we already know the classic way of writing a switch statement.
So let's say this is our enum Monday to Sunday.
And this is how generally we write a switch statement.
So switch day then we have different cases.
Case Monday then whatever you have to do certain operations.
Number of characters.
Let's say I am printing the number of characters Monday has six characters and break.
So like we have different cases okay.
And we can also do in this like we can do stacking case stacking right.
Like Monday, Friday, Sunday all have six characters and then we break it.
Tuesday has seven characters.
Break it Thursday and Saturday I grouped together.
So this is what we already know.
So what are the announcement has been made in Java 14.
So first there are a lot of problems with this old switch statement which we have seen.
So we will cover one by one.
We will see all those problems.
And also how this Java 14 switch features resolve those.
So let's see that.
So first thing multiple lines of case stacking.
So now here if you see each case need its own line.
So I am telling you old switch statement.
So like we have already seen like Case Monday case Friday case Sunday then this is the logic for them
okay.
So for each case you need one line okay.
So that's the one you can say that verbose we have.
And that is resolved in the Java 14 stack feature.
In this we added a comma separated case grouping.
You only need like case.
Then you have Monday comma Friday comma Sunday and then your operation.
Okay, so that's the first you can say that announcement instead of like case stacking.
Now you can group separated with commas.
Okay.
So now here if you see we got little clean code.
The second issue the fall through by default.
So here if you see in the old switch statement when there is a matching happen here.
Okay let's say case Monday if you don't put a break it will fall through the next case.
That's what we know.
So now in this case my day is Friday.
Okay.
So yes these are the cases stacking.
If any of this match this logic will run.
But now here if you see I intentionally miss the break statement.
So what will it do.
It will fall to the next case Tuesday.
So it will print both six and seven.
And now after this one it got break so it will not fall through.
So it prints six and seven.
Okay.
Why?
Because we missed the break statement here.
And that's why it fall through.
So that you can say that one of the disadvantage of the old switch statement.
So you have to be very, very careful that the break is been used at proper place or not.
So this is very important in the Java 14 switch announcement a new form of switch label.
So you have a case label and then you have an arrow.
So this has been introduced.
It tells that only the code to the right hand side of the label.
Okay.
So only the code which is.
So this is your case.
You have a label.
And on the right hand side of this arrow only that need to be executed only if the label is match.
If this label is match.
If this case is match, then only the code which is there on the right hand side of this arrow need
to be executed.
So that's the meaning of it.
So no need to add the break for each case now.
So now see this one.
So how we can write this.
So switch day.
So instead of this each different line for case I can have like case even in the all in the one line
separated with commas.
Monday Friday Sunday.
So this is my label.
Now arrow.
So this is our arrow.
Now here whatever we want to our logic.
Okay.
Now here.
If you see you don't need to put a break.
That's what it tell only.
Only the code to be executed.
Which is right hand side of this.
So only this code will get executed.
So there is no concept of fall through now.
Okay, so Tuesday case Tuesday you put an arrow and then put a logic.
You don't need to put a break as there is no concept of fall through now in this one.
Okay.
And it's not like that in Java 14.
The old classic way of writing is not supported.
If you want a fallback strategy, you can still use this.
Nobody is stopping you.
But if you are using this arrow, then means you are using the new feature and means you will not get.
You will not need to write a break.
There is no fall through possible.
Okay, so there is a less chance of bugs created through break.
Missing or not, right?
The third is no value return.
So here if you see in the old switch statement, there is no concept of returning a value from the switch.
So whenever we want to set any value what we will do above the switch, we write certain variable.
Let's say integer count equals to zero.
Okay.
Now if case is Monday or Friday or Sunday, I put count equals to six.
I set this variable okay and then break.
If it is a Tuesday I initialize this variable.
If this is Thursday Friday I initialize it with eight.
Likewise okay.
And later on I will print that System.out.println count okay.
So this is the you can see that classical way of traditional way of writing the switch statement where
we want certain values to be initialized.
So this is how we used to do that.
Now we got a concept of returning a value from the switch.
Also we can use it as an expression okay.
So what is expression.
So let's say that integer A equals to.
You can have some expression here.
Right?
One plus five.
So this is generally known as one expression.
Okay.
You would compute something and then you are assigning some value to it.
Okay.
So that we can use switch like this.
Let's say we have only one statement.
So how we can use it.
So c integer count.
So this is what the return type I am expecting from the switch.
Okay.
Switch day like this I'm using switch day.
And instead of this stacking I am using comma separated Monday.
Comma Friday.
Sunday okay.
And now I am putting an arrow means the code which is there at the right hand side need to be executed.
So currently I have only one statement six.
So internally it will automatically return this automatically return this to this variable.
It will assign this six to this count variable.
So for Tuesday arrow you are returning seven Thursday comma Saturday you are returning eight.
And for Wednesday we are returning nine.
And remember that after this we have to put a semicolon.
Okay.
So it's just like this integer count equals to.
There is some logic once you complete that.
After that you have to put semicolon.
You have to end the assignment expression.
You have to end this expression.
So that's what we are ending the expression okay.
So this is one thing.
If you have only one statement if you have block of statement.
So now let's say that switch day.
Now I am starting the block.
So here if you see I have a case Monday to Friday comma Sunday arrow means the right hand side need
to be executed.
This code need to be executed.
Now I have a block of a statement.
I have more than one statement, so I'm using a block.
So I started the block and this is the end of the block.
So within this I have multiple statements.
If let's say day equals to equals to Sunday I am just throwing some exception.
Sunday is a holiday.
Otherwise I need to return some value.
Right.
So that's what it's an assignment.
I am using some expression.
I'm expecting some value, some return out of this switch.
Okay.
So this case need to return something.
If there is only one statement you can do that it will return this.
You can do.
Hello.
It will return this string okay.
But here when you have more than one statement and you are within a block, how you will return there
is a keyword yield.
So you have to use it yield six.
So this means that it has to return a value from the switch.
So case Tuesday arrow.
There is only one statement, so no need to use yield.
So when you do seven it automatically returns the value.
Thursday.
Saturday it will automatically return the value eight.
Like this.
Okay.
And yes you need a semicolon.
And after that you can print the count.
So now it is possible to return a value from switch which is earlier not possible.
That is one of the advantage also.
Now one thing you have noticed that when we are using as an expression, when we are using the switch
as an expression, means we are expecting certain value to be returned from switch.
Like in this switch, count equals to.
Now we are expecting certain, let's say Case Monday or case Tuesday.
Now each case should return something okay.
If they can't return, They should throw an exception.
It's just like an expression.
You have to finish this expression, right?
You can't just leave the expression in mid not returning anything.
Okay, so either you have to.
Whenever you are using the switch as an expression, you have to complete it either successfully return
a value properly like here I am returning 6789 or you have to throw an exception if you don't want to
return.
Okay, so here let's say in case of Sunday, I don't want to return anything.
So I am throwing an exception.
But each and every case should be complete.
So expression should be complete in the short form.
Either throw an exception in a particular case or either throw a value.
Non exhaustiveness check.
So here if you see in a enum I have Monday to Sunday.
So in the old switch statement compiler doesn't force you to cover all values.
So in this case in the switch I am putting Monday and Tuesday.
Okay, so count equals to zero Monday I am assigning it count equals to six and assigning count equals
to seven in this one.
And that's all I am printing it later on.
If you run this what it will print this Friday.
Do not match with this case.
It will not match with this case.
So you will see the default count value is zero.
It will get printed.
So compiler will not force you that hey there is.
You need to cover all possible values.
No, there is nothing like uh nobody is forcing us.
But in the Java switch, there is one condition that when you use switch as an expression only as an
expression.
Okay, you can use switch as an if statement.
You can switch as an expression.
So difference is that let's say I am using switch.
Okay.
Now in this case my case is Is Monday.
Okay.
And you are just printing something.
System.out.println.
Monday.
Okay, so this is a statement.
This is a statement.
Now if you want to use that as an expression.
So always remember that simple way to remember is when anybody say that a switch expression means we
are expecting some value return value out of it.
So means I'm expecting something like let's say a string or message equals to.
Now I am expecting something out of that switch day case, something let's say if case is what Monday?
I am expecting some value.
So let's say it's a weekday so it will return it.
It will return this automatically to this one.
So this is an expression.
This is an expression.
So this exhaustiveness check I am saying only in switch when you use switch as an expression.
So compiler will force you to use or to cover all possible cases.
So now in this case when the enum I have from Monday to Sunday.
So I have used let's say int count equals to.
I am using switch now as an expression.
So switch day I am using Case Monday.
I am returning six.
When the case is Thursday I am returning eight cases, Wednesday I am returning nine.
That's all.
I am ending the expression.
But here, if you see I am getting an exception.
That switch expression does not cover all possible input values.
Switch expression.
So means we are expecting some response out of switch only.
In that scenario, compiler forces that hey cover all the possible cases.
So either you have like all cases like case Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday,
Sunday.
If you have all the possible enum values covered, it's fine.
If you don't know what all values can come, you can use default.
So Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday you don't know what all possible values can come.
You can use default.
You can return zero default value.
Or if you don't want to return a default value you can throw an exception like this.
Default throw exception not allowed.
Okay, but when you are using the switch as an expression, you have to cover all the possible use cases.
Fifth, all case blocks share the same scope.
Now if you see old switch statement.
So this is my one case block.
This is my another case block.
Okay.
Now here in this one case Monday I am initializing one string val.
So string val equals to Monday.
And I'm printing this string val simple.
And then put a break in Tuesday I am again creating string string val same name.
The string here.
Well here also same name.
So I got an error.
That variable string val is already defined in the scope.
So here if you see if you are using this old switch statement like this, then the scope of this variable
is throughout this block.
So you have to specifically use internal blocks if you want a let's say local variables.
You have to specifically use this local blocks within a Monday.
You have to put a block specifically for Tuesday you have to use a block.
Then only this issue will not come okay.
Otherwise, if you are not using blocks and you are using like this.
Generally, if you have a habit of using traditional switch.
Generally we use like this, right?
If it is Tuesday let's say, then you have your code logic and ultimately you put a break.
Then this issue might can come but this do not arise in Java 14 switch.
Uh announcement if you are using it with arrow okay.
So each case with this arrow is treated as an independent scope.
So whatever the code you will gonna write in the right hand side of this arrow is considered as one
independent scope.
It has its own scope okay.
So Monday then you have to if you have more than one statement you have to use a block you can't use
like that Monday arrow.
And then you can have multiple statement.
You can't use it okay.
So you have to use independent scope.
You have to have its own block block.
And then you can write inside this.
Okay.
Then I have multiple statements.
So I'm writing a string val equals to Monday.
And then I'm returning this value.
Similarly Tuesday also has the same value.
And then I am returning it.
Okay.
Now here if you see that we can also use old style like this case, you have a case and then label and
then colon.
So old style is case label colon and new style is case label arrow okay.
So you can use certain old style with new feature.
So now in this case here if you see what I am doing.
So I am using switch day I am using case one comma seven.
This is also new feature okay I am using comma separated labels Okay, then I use a colon.
This colon is old, so remember this.
Whenever you are using colon means fall through.
Fall through can happen.
Means you need break.
You need break or do return yield.
Okay.
So colon is always fall through.
So you have to be very clear that it will fall through.
Either do break or return.
Okay.
If you are using arrow then it is never a fall through.
You don't need to use a break.
Okay, so now again I am using colon.
Okay so now I can do like yield weaken.
I don't need to put a break specifically.
And now here if you see yield is also a new feature.
Now with the old old way old switch way like case colon I am able to return the value.
Okay.
Case 23456 colon yield weekday.
So it is returning this.
So either you are using yield then you don't need break.
Because yield is also says that hey return from here.
Don't go next.
Okay.
But remember that if you have something like this case one comma two colon and then you have a block
of statements.
Statement one.
Statement two.
Statement three.
And definitely you are not returning any value.
Then you have to use break.
Otherwise it will move to the next let's say case three.
It will move fall back to the next one.
Okay.
So even though you are using new features you are using one comma two.
Hey you are using new feature of the switch.
Doesn't matter.
You are using colon.
Colon.
You can say that, uh, nature is fall through.
So when the statements are getting executed, either use brake to stop it or otherwise it will fall
through the next case.
And if you don't want to use brake and if you want to return some value, let's say you want to use
it as an expression integer.
Let's say count.
Use yield instead.
Yield certain some value like this okay.
So very very simple.
Always I think it's always simple to remember in that case.
Like how I remembered whenever colon is there it is fall through.
And whenever it is fall through.
Either you have two option to stop it, either through break and you will use generally break when it
is a statement means you are not expecting.
You are not using switch as an expression, and if you are using switch as an expression like I am using
here, I am using expecting some value out of it.
Then you have to use yield.
Okay.
And if you are not using colon, if you are using this arrow then you don't have to worry about break
itself.
Right.
You don't have to worry about break.
If you have to, uh, return some value, you have to return through yield.
If not, then it's just a block of statement finish.
You don't need to put a break.
Okay.
So that's pretty much all the announcement which has been done in Java 14.
So do practice with your hand each and every possible use cases like all this five six step which I
have told do practice with your hand.
It will get clear to you.
And this is very useful in nowadays latest codes of maybe in your company you will see latest way of
using the switch okay.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java 16: Pattern Matching for instanceof ---

They said welcome back.
And today we will cover the Java 16 feature which is pattern matching for instance, of operator.
Okay, so we have already covered what is instance of operator.
If you haven't seen that, kindly check it out.
It would be helpful.
So this is how generally we use it.
Say you have an object and inside that object we can have let's say string whatever.
And within an if condition we can check.
Hey is this object is an instance of string.
If yes, we typecast it to a string, we typecast this object to a string, and after that we use it.
So with an old way, there is an extra overhead of doing this typecasting.
So this is now resolved through Java 16 pattern matching feature.
So in Java 16 it is finalized.
Maybe you got this in the preview in the previous version but finalized happen in Java 16.
So how we gonna use it like now.
Again, the same in the object.
You can have anything.
Now, if condition object is instance of string.
And after that you can give any variable name whichever you want okay.
So internally what it will do is it will first do the comparison.
Comparison is that.
Yeah.
Is object instance of string or not.
If this is true then it is automatically do the typecasting.
So it will automatically do this typecasting like this object is typecast to a string and assign it
to s, whatever the variable you will give.
And you can directly use it.
You don't have to do that.
It is all happening typecasting happening internally.
So the scope of this variable, which you have defined, right, it exists inside the block only okay.
So within this block you can use this outside this block You can't.
Okay.
And also compiler ensured the type safety.
So now let's say that you have multiple hierarchy of if else if.
So let's say if object instance of string and the variable name if object instance of integer then I
if else if object instance of user then the variable name you have defined you.
So compiler ensure type safety like whichever become true.
Let's say you are here.
In this case it is a string.
Object is a string.
So this instance of string will become true after do after then it will do a typecasting of object to
string properly.
Let's say if your object is integer then this condition will get true.
Object is instance of integer.
Then it will do a proper typecasting and assign it to I properly integer obj.
So it ensures the type safety.
We don't have to worry about that.
We are doing a type casting correctly or not.
Okay, like this we can directly use the variable.
We can also combine it with end operator.
So here if you see that object instance of integer and then your variable I.
After this we can use with and operator also okay.
So you can say that we can add further more restriction or conditions okay.
So now object is integer.
Yes.
Then what is the.
So this is first condition comparison object is instance of integer true.
The second comparison.
The second thing is type casting.
So what it will happen is this object is now type casted to integer and assign it to I.
Okay.
And now you can use it like this I less than ten I greater than whatever the value okay.
And uh if that condition is true internally, you can use it to.
Okay.
So after the assignment after the typecasting happened.
So this get initialized.
So first it will become comparison need to be true.
After that typecasting and initialization happen.
And then only this works.
You can't use it like I less than ten first.
And an object instance of integer I.
That will not work okay.
So first this has to be there.
And after that you can use this.
But pattern matching does not work in combination with or operator with.
And it works because it gives a guarantee that I is an integer, but with an Or condition.
Let's say I am using object instance of integer or object instance of string, and I have also given
the pattern like uh, uses the pattern matching integer space variable name.
I similarly object instance of string space variable name.
So in this case the control.
In this case this object goes inside this.
But will you be able to access this I and s no.
In this pattern matching internally will not work.
Okay.
So because there is no guarantee that whether this object is an integer or whether it's a string okay.
So internally it don't do typecast it just like a normal old fashioned instance of them.
Even though you are writing here, it would it is of no use internally.
It is not doing pattern matching.
Okay.
Pattern matching can also works with interface.
So now here, if you see, let's say I have an interface vehicle which has a abstract method drive.
I have two children, two Wheeler and four Wheeler, and both has overridden the drive method and provide
their implementation.
So in without pattern matching in the old way, how we would be using, let's say this is my object
which contain an instance of two Wheeler.
So in if condition we would be looking.
Hey, if this object is instance of two Wheeler, then I would typecast this object to two Wheeler and
then call the drive method.
Similarly, if object is instance of four Wheeler, I typecast it to four Wheeler and then you can invoke
the drive method.
Generally this is how we do.
But with pattern matching say object is two Wheeler.
What we can do is we can do this if object instance of vehicle the parent one.
We can give the parent one if object instance of vehicle okay and space the object.
Whatever you want to give internally it will do first comparison.
Yes object is instance of vehicle.
So object is currently two Wheeler.
So our parent vehicle is also can handle the child also.
So that's why this condition will true.
Object is instance of vehicle.
Also both two Wheeler four Wheeler is nothing but an instance of vehicle.
So that will become true now.
Second it will do typecasting.
And while it internally do typecasting it will properly assign.
So in this case it will properly.
So it's a object is new two Wheeler.
Right.
So it will automatically do a typecasting to a proper child class.
Proper subclass.
So when you call this drive method it will print two Wheeler drive implementation properly.
li.
Okay.
If this is like new four Wheeler, and if you call this drive, it will call proper four wheel drive
implementation properly.
Okay.
So there is something called pattern matching.
With switch.
So currently we have seen is pattern matching with instance of operator which is available in Java 16.
Now this there is something called pattern matching with switch okay.
This is available in Java 21.
So that's why I will cover it in to the separate video because this functionality is available in a
total different Java version but very similar.
Okay.
So yeah, if there is any doubt in this let me know.
We can discuss further.
But yeah, it is very small concept but handy.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java 21: Pattern Matching for switch ---

Welcome back to the channel.
So today in we will cover Java 21 feature pattern matching for switch.
We have already seen pattern matching for instance of which is available in Java 16.
And this pattern matching for switch is available in Java 21 finalized in Java 21.
Preview might become in the previous version of Java.
Okay, so we have already seen switch statement switch expression, which is available in Java 14 plus.
We already know that these are all the data types which is supported in switch.
So int short byte vector and their wrapper types integer short byte and character enum string.
So these type of data types are supported in switch.
And this is how we use it either.
Let's say int a equals to two.
You will use like this case one.
Use an if statement.
Put a break likewise.
Or you can use a expression way like system dot dot dot print ln and you are using switch a case one
arrow this Monday will get returned.
Case two arrow this Tuesday will get returned.
Okay, we have already seen in the previous video, uh, of this one switch expression, where we have
discussed this into the Java 14 feature.
So this will get return and ultimately system dot dot dot println will print it okay.
So these are two ways of doing this.
But with Java 21 pattern matching for switch we have supports everything whatever the classic switch
can whatever this Java classic traditional one plus Java 14 plus like whatever the feature Java 14 supports.
Okay.
Uh, yield if you remember, Read this.
Arrow.
Right.
Using as an expression everything is supported, so no change in that.
Apart from this, in the pattern matching for Switch in Java 21, it also support objects like classes,
interfaces, abstract type wrapper objects.
Okay.
Earlier classes interfaces.
Wrapper types are abstract.
Types are not supported only these are supported only these enum string in short byte character and
their respective wrapper classes okay.
Classes.
Interfaces.
Abstract types.
You cannot use it.
You cannot use objects in simple.
But now we can use it.
How?
First thing first, before you are starting it, I am again saying you that first checkout pattern matching
for instance of because internally Finally, this switch is also using instance of only how?
See that?
So now let's say that I have one object equals to hello world.
Now I am writing a switch statement.
So switch obj.
Okay now this is an object.
See this is new.
Okay.
You are putting a case.
Either it's an string a space variable name.
Now you are able to know what we have seen this instance of.
Right.
If let's say obj.
Instance of string space variable name then use it.
Use this as directly.
No need of doing a typecasting.
The same thing is happening.
But you can say that the syntax like we are writing in a switch, but internally this code might get
generated.
So object is an instance of string.
If yes, then it will get typecast to this string and initialize this variable S.
Okay.
And you can use this s properly.
But if object is not an string it will go to the next case.
Is it an integer?
If yes, then it will get typecast properly to the integer and initialize this variable I and you can
use this I properly.
Okay by default, whatever you want to do.
So internally it is doing the same thing of like similarly pattern matching of instance of what we have
seen.
Okay.
And that's one of the reason why pattern matching on switch.
If you are doing a pattern matching on switch, it is slower than compared to what classic switch used
to do.
So when we say that, right?
Hey switch.
If you are using switch with this data types, we can always say that hey, switch is faster than ifelse.
Okay, but if you are using switch with object, there is no difference with Ifelse.
Also it just like simple readability.
Okay, because internally for an object it is converting to this ifelse only.
But if you are using with normal like primitives, right?
In short care this one so it don't convert it to Ifelse it make use of either jump table or lookup table.
It don't convert it to Ifelse and that's why it was faster than Ifelse.
But when we are dealing with object, it is doing nothing but an instance of only like ifelse if okay.
So there is no much improvement in speed as compared to if I use this as an if else if It's just like
readability.
Little bit better if you prefer this one.
Okay.
Also, the scope of pattern variable is within the block only.
It cannot be accessed in another case block or default block or after the switch.
So now here if you see this let's say this object is an instance of string true.
And then it will do type casting and initialize that object variable data to this s.
So now this s you can use it within this uh this variable as you can use it inside this case itself.
You cannot use it outside of this case or other case.
You cannot use it into default or even outside of this switch block.
So this variable is not visible here.
It is only visible within this case only.
Okay.
We can also use the pattern with the classes and inheritance.
Okay.
So now here, if you see I have a vehicle and it has an abstract method drive.
So I have two subclasses two Wheeler and four Wheeler.
They have implemented the drive method.
And for the two Wheeler I have another bike and another subclasses cycle like this.
Now see.
If I am writing this certain method, I have a validate method.
I am getting a two Wheeler object.
I am getting this object.
I am writing a switch condition of this object two Wheeler object which I am getting.
Two Wheeler two obj.
So this is my object name.
So what are the possible scenario Switch two Wheeler object.
Can it be a bike case?
Bike?
Yeah, this is possible scenario.
We can write it as a case because this two Wheeler.
This could be a bike.
Okay.
Like this.
What if you have done this two Wheeler equals to this object equals to new bike.
So this is a possible scenario.
That's why you can use this case cycle.
This cycle is a possible case.
Yes because this is the object then yes it could be a cycle.
Also two Wheeler you can create a new cycle also.
So this is also possible right.
This is a valid.
So that's why this case also I can write cycle.
But can you use this case for Wheeler.
No you can't do like whatever the two Wheeler object.
You can never have new four Wheeler object.
Can it have this four Wheeler object.
No.
That's a total different.
Okay.
Two Wheeler.
Either bike can be a two Wheeler, either cycle could be a two Wheeler.
Either the same a two Wheeler object we can have.
But the four Wheeler cannot be this two Wheeler.
So that's why we cannot use four Wheeler as a case.
Now this.
Can you use vehicle?
Yeah.
Vehicle is my parent class.
Parent class should be able to handle the child classes.
So yes I should be able to add it.
So this is valid.
Okay.
But why I am seeing this exception I will tell you another case is two Wheeler.
Can you use this two Wheeler as a case?
Can this object be two Wheeler itself?
Yeah, it is possible.
What if it is creating a new two Wheeler object itself?
Okay, if this is a class itself, then yes, you can create an object of itself.
You can use it.
So this is also valid.
Right.
But see why I am seeing this exception?
It's a duplicate unconditional pattern.
Duplicate unconditional pattern.
So means see these two vehicle and two Wheeler.
These are like you can say that can catch all other possible scenario.
If it is a bike this will catch.
If it's a cycle this will catch.
Apart from everything this can catch.
And also two Wheeler can catch.
Why?
Because the object which is coming is an instance of two Wheeler.
Correct?
So what?
All possible.
Either this is possible.
Bike is possible.
Cycle is possible okay.
So vehicle can definitely handle all these three.
Even the two Wheeler can handle all these three.
It can handle itself.
It can handle bike.
It can handle cycle.
So both is like unconditional pattern means they can handle everything.
So it's that's why it's a duplicate use only one.
So that's generally I said, like you can have bike as a valid case cycle as a valid case, and either
one of them either vehicle or two Wheeler, either one of them.
Okay.
Because our object is this.
Similarly, if it is a four Wheeler, if this object is a four Wheeler, let's say you are you are getting
a four Wheeler object.
What all cases you can have and let's say four Wheeler has multiple multiple objects.
So what.
All cases you can have.
So you can have either four Wheeler either these all child's but you cannot have two Wheeler or bike
or cycle.
No okay.
And.
This who can catch every other use case.
Either vehicle.
Vehicle can handle everything.
Either four Wheeler and all its child.
Either this four Wheeler itself can handle itself and all itself.
Okay, So you got it right.
How to you can use if switch condition in case of inheritance.
Okay so pattern matching with enum.
So now here if you see that without pattern matching let's say you have a color red green blue yellow.
And this is our object.
You are putting a switch obj case.
Now you have different cases like case if color dot red this is the code color dot green.
This is the code color default.
Other.
Now with pattern matching it simplifies our code now.
So again simple thing object is color dot red the same thing.
So now instance of we are using just understand or lookup from that.
Hey we have to put one instance of.
So now case if this object is an instance of this color space variable name.
Si.
So yes this object is an instance of this color.
True.
then it will do automatically type casting.
Okay.
So it will automatically do a type cast of this proper enum.
And you can directly use C dot name.
So if it's it will print red it will print green if it is green respectively.
So we don't have to do a proper like okay.
If it is red then do this.
It's a green.
Then print this.
If this is the simple scenario, this is how it can be handled.
Okay.
Yes my object is instance of color okay.
And then second thing is it will do typecast okay.
So this it this object is now typecast to my enum color.
And you are just printing its name.
Simple.
Null handling pattern matching switches.
Null.
Safe.
So here if you see that object is null.
So the first condition like you can say that the instance of write that will would itself get filled.
So typecasting will not throw any null pointer exception.
So it will.
Don't worry about this that hey, what I am doing here like this.
My object is null.
So it will it do null typecast it to this.
No, this will not happen because it is null safe.
The first condition where it match.
Hey, this object is an instance of string so that return false and if it is false, it will not even
do typecasting itself.
Okay, so you can handle it through default.
Then there is something called grouping of the pattern.
So it is not possible to group multiple pattern.
It is if you remember that in the instance of it is not possible to use or condition correct.
Similarly, in this case itself, that pattern matching won't work.
Let's say object is an isn't circle.
It's a circle.
Okay, so I am just putting a case.
Hey, is this object is a circle space C variable name.
I am trying to use pattern matching.
Okay, again, I am putting another case.
Hey, if this is a square space S so what error I am getting.
Multiple switch labels are permitted for a switch label statement group only if none of them declare
any pattern variable.
So if you are trying to use a pattern then you can't use like you can't group, you have to use individually.
Because this will not guarantee that this object is a circle or a square.
That is the case.
And even you can't use this like case circle C comma square s.
No not possible.
Okay.
You can use only one because that's give guarantee.
And then there is something called guarded pattern.
Helps to add additional condition on pattern matching using when.
So here if you see.
Switch object let's say that you are putting a condition hey case string.
And then you are putting a pattern variable name s.
So now here if this get true let's say that if object is instance of string true then it will do typecasting
and it will assign the.
It will typecast the object and assign the value to this variable s.
Now in this case, if you have a further condition that hey, you are putting if condition if variable
dot contains h or this variable name dot contains capital h, then do something, otherwise break Okay,
so in that scenario, this guarded pattern comes into the picture where we can further add the condition
like string as when we can use when you can add this condition.
Also you can add more condition.
Also S dot contain h or s dot contains capital H okay.
So it's like a and condition.
And if you remember from instance of pattern matching and we were able to do but or we were not able
to do similarly in this case also we are not able to do so.
This is kind of or so that we are not able to do.
And this one is something like and okay.
So first it will do pattern matching.
Yes.
Is object is an instance of string true.
Then it will do Typecasting.
Okay, this object is typecast to a string and this variable is initialized.
Then it will do further check.
Okay.
When this dot this is also true.
Then this is another condition.
If this is true, then it goes inside.
Otherwise it goes to the next case or default.
So remember this that here in the switch when is something which is doing equivalent to n and this is
or which is not allowed.
And in the same instance of it was not allowed.
Very short concept, but handy if you see this in your code.
Uh, don't get like hey, surprise!
Hey, even in the switch, we are able to use the object from when from Java 21 and it is nothing.
But internally it's doing if else condition.
Okay.
If you have any doubt, let me know.
We can discuss further into the comment section.
Okay guys.
Bye.

--- Java 16: Record class ---

Welcome back to the channel and let's cover today Java 16 feature that is records.
So let's start without wasting time.
So let's understand the problem.
First to create an immutable class which is just required a simple data carrier like a Pojo.
Okay we need to write the below code.
Just check the amount of code we have to write.
So we will create.
Let's say I'm creating a class user.
I have to first make it final so that it cannot be subclassed all its member variable.
I need to declare it private final okay, and these will be set through constructor and only getter
methods would be allowed.
No setter methods would be exposed and equals hashcode and two strings method would also be available,
like if we generally required it because see we have to pass it right sometime we store it in map and
all.
So these methods sometime we have to provide okay.
So this is how our normal, immutable, very basic immutable class looks like.
Okay.
And this is how we create it.
Like we can create an object new user.
And by the time of creating an object we have to initialize the member variable because there is no
setter method separately.
So we have at the time of constructor itself, we have to initialize it.
After that we can use with the get method.
So one thing we can easily notice is lot of boiler code just for a basic immutable Pojo class.
And that's where Java 16 comes into the picture.
It helps us to generate lot of this code automatically.
But wait you.
We have already seen the Lombok.
Lombok have also helped us in reducing all this boiler code.
Lombok also can help me like if I use this Lombok annotation at the radiator, at the radiator, it
will help me to generate the getter method automatically.
If I use this at the rate equals and hashcode, it will help me to generate equals and hashCode method
automatically.
Similarly, this is for constructor.
This is for toString method.
And similarly, if I use at the rate value only one, it will help me to generate an immutable class
itself.
Okay.
So why we need this records which is available in Java 16.
Why when we already have Lombok.
I will tell you okay.
But let's first understand records how it works.
Okay then at last we will come back to this Lombok again.
Then we will find out a difference.
What record?
Why record is given a more priority nowadays.
Okay, so let's first understand record.
It helps us to create immutable class in a short way.
Okay.
It is mostly designed to reduce the boiler code for data carrying classes like a Pojo.
Very simple, immutable classes only.
Uh, if you want, you can use records.
Okay.
And its syntax is that this is the keyword record.
Whatever the name you have to give, give it the name.
And then you have to provide all the fields.
Okay.
With comma separated you can provide all the fields and curly braces on.
Curly braces off.
That's all.
So the whole so let's say this whole class.
Now if you use this syntax, let's say I'm using public I have used the keyword record.
The name I have given is user okay.
Now all the fields which it has name and age right.
I have given a string name comma, string age.
That's all.
Okay, now this everything constructor getter method equals hashCode two string.
This final class is made final.
Even this, all the variables which you have provided that will also be made private.
Final.
Everything would be generated automatically.
Okay so if you see Java C user dot, if you run this, if you compile this and see the dot class file
of this record user, you will see that it has generated the getter method.
Okay.
It has generated a constructor okay.
And it has used the keyword record.
So keyword is a record.
It is not changed to let's say hey why it is not their final class and all.
So this is the you can say that new addition where record itself mean that it is equivalent to that
final class.
Okay.
So now let's see one by one and understand what happens.
And you invoke it.
Like normally I am creating an object of this record user.
Okay.
And in the constructor, even though here if you see I haven't defined any constructor, but it's there.
Okay, I can pass all the values in a order.
So here the string is first and integer is second, right?
So first string, then integer.
And after that you can use it even if you see the two string method is available.
So now let's see what happened.
So this is the dot class file right.
This is the dot class file.
So first thing first the record.
So if you understand it the record keyword is equivalent to final class.
So means you are making a class final the record access specifier public or you are wanted it or package
protected.
Uh package private.
These rules are similar.
What to the normal class?
Okay, so there is no change that.
Hey, for if you are using a record, there is any difference in the rule for this axis specified normal,
whatever it is there for the normal class.
Okay.
Then we have like all record class by default extend Java dot lang dot record class implicitly.
Okay, so whatever the record you are creating okay, I am creating a user record internally.
It extends this Java dot lang dot record.
Why?
Because Java framework identify whether this user, whether this user is a record or is a class normal
class and how it does that it check whatever.
Let's say you are at currently user.
So get it.
Superclass.
If it is equals to equals to record class, then all the record logic, all the record rules will run
into the picture.
Okay.
And that's why it's superclass implicitly all record which you will create implicitly it extends.
Record Java dot lang dot record.
It is not visible to us but internally it does.
And that's one of the reason why you cannot extend another class.
Okay.
If you let's say you are writing like this public record, you are creating one record, let's say user
and providing all the variables string, name, int, age.
And you are trying to extend, let's say another class Myservice extend is not allowed on record.
Why?
Because there is already one.
extent is happening internally, implicitly and in Java.
You already know that multiple inheritance is not supported.
You cannot extend from more than one classes, but you can implement more than one interfaces.
And that's where you implement are allowed.
So you can do this.
Public record.
You can give the record name whatever the variable name you want to give implements whichever the interface
you want to implement.
You can do that.
And you can provide its implementation like a normal.
Okay.
So there is no problem in that.
Now let's see.
The second part of this one is like.
This fields which we give.
So internally it generates a private final field, and these are generally known as record components.
Now from on I am going to call it record components.
When I call record components, just say that I am talking about these fields which are given beside
your record name okay.
So it automatically generates a private final fields.
Internally it will create a private final string name private final int age okay.
Another important is we cannot add more than one instance field, not more than one.
We cannot add more instance field.
Whatever you want to define.
Define it at here like this is your user your field one, field two, field three.
Whatever you want to define, define here.
If you want to go, let's say internally like a class.
Can I define more?
No.
Not allowed.
Why?
Because this record is also known as transparent data carrier means.
Just by looking at the record itself, you can know what data it is carrying that I can know that user
is carrying the name and age.
Okay, so that's why it is known as transparent data carrier.
That's one of the reason it do not allow to define more instances within internally like this.
If you want you can have to define like this comma last name.
Okay.
But static fields are allowed.
So within a record like user you have a name age.
But now you can define a static field like here I define a static name.
Now you can ask hey why static field is allowed.
Why not normal instance field.
So here see static Field belongs to a class does not belong to an object.
So our object is still immutable.
Our object is not changing.
So for this, this is it will generate private final.
It will also generate private final age.
And these fields or record components belongs to each instance okay.
And these static belongs to a class.
So our each object let's say if I am creating multiple objects user object one.
User object two.
These objects are still immutable.
Okay.
Because whatever the fields which is required, we define here at top in the record components.
And this static belongs to a class not to an instance.
So the rule that object is immutable that is not change.
So that's why static is allowed.
Now comes to the part constructor where it creates right.
So it automatically when you do let's say right record user field one.
Field two okay.
And that's all.
You haven't defined anything internally.
It generates constructor like this.
Okay.
So this is dot class file after compilation.
We got this.
So it generates a canonical instructor means constructor that take all the record components fields
in an order.
So this constructor takes all the fields name age, whatever we have defined in the record components
and in the same order okay.
And it initializes them.
We can override the canonical constructor if want.
If let's say you want to put certain conditions you can do that.
Let's say I can in this record I can override this constructor.
And I put condition that if age is less than zero, do something.
You can have your custom logic, but you have to assign this like this.
You have to initialize this name and age like this okay.
We can have compact constructor two.
This is additional feature okay.
Which is a shorthand form of the canonical structure constructor.
So here if you see the above constructor you can write it as.
So currently you have to give like this public user and all the fields which are defined into the record
components in the same order.
So we don't want we can skip it.
Also we can just give public user that's all we can skip, providing all the fields not required internally.
It will add it.
You can just put curly braces on.
Curly braces off.
Put your logic.
Okay.
Put your logic.
And even you can ignore this.
This dot name.
This dot age initialization part.
Also, you can ignore this.
It will automatically add it.
Compiler add this automatically, but only with this compact constructor.
Remember that.
Okay.
So for this if you are using compact constructor you can avoid this parameters.
It will automatically generate.
We can also have more constructor with different parameter list also.
Okay.
Let's say that I am creating a different.
So see canonical constructor is implicitly create.
So I am creating one record user and I have this record component name and age.
So internally it will create one canonical nickel.
Constructor.
Which constructor have all the fields of the record component in the same order?
But now I am creating more constructor with different parameters, let's say.
And I have only age.
So this put one restriction that yes you can have different constructor.
No problem.
Different constructor with different parameter no problem.
But internally you have to invoke the canonical constructor.
So here I am invoking the canonical constructor and passing this values in the order of the record component
name age so that this will get initialized properly.
Okay, so this is just to make sure that no field left uninitialized.
So if you're writing your own constructor with different parameters, you have to make sure that you
invoke the canonical one and pass the parameter in the same order of the record components and all everyone,
every every field.
Also whatever the constructor canonical constructor which is getting generated here, let's say it's
public access fire.
Now we will see that if we are creating a record public, then our canonical constructor should be public.
Okay, so I am creating a record.
Public record user.
And these are my record components.
Now the canonical constructor should be public to generally implicitly it will create.
You don't have to worry about it let's say.
But you thought that no I will override it.
Make sure that it should be public.
You don't change it.
So here if you see my record is public, you can't restrict it okay.
So you will see an error like this.
Okay.
You can't restrict the access access level.
So similarly here if you see my record is default package level.
So here your constructor also can be a package level, either same level or you can increase the access
level.
So here it is default I haven't tell anything.
So it's a package level but I can use public.
This is allowed.
You can increase the constructor access level but you can't decrease it.
That's the rule.
Another for the constructor is that make sure you are doing defensive coping.
For example this is you have created a record public record user and you have defined all the fields.
So let's say that field is list.
One is list list of string hobbies.
Even though it will create let's say private final list of string hobbies.
so it will only make a final this reference.
But the list ultimately it point to that you can change, right?
That is not immutable.
So that is just only for the knowledge that hey, even though my hobbies internally it will make it
immutable, private, final.
But this hobby I can change it.
I can access the hobby object and add new.
Nobody is going to restrict it because this is not immutable, only this reference.
I cannot change the reference.
So it is just an advisable that in that case, you can override the canonical instruct constructor and
make this list.
Also like this immutable list dot copy of hobby.
If you see the copy of implementation right, it will make it immutable and if you try to change it,
you will get Exception.
Unsupported operation exception.
So this is just for a reference.
Okay.
Even though you are making private final this list, it doesn't make your actual list immutable.
Only this reference is immutable.
Okay.
Now let's go to the getter part.
Now here, if you see for every record component like the field, it automatically generate the public
method.
Public method.
Accessor method means I didn't say public get method is because generally our syntax for the get method
is annotation is get and the name okay field name.
But here the method name it generate is exactly the same as what you are for.
The record component is.
So my field name is let's say name.
So it create one method with the name itself and you can fetch it.
Okay.
They are named exactly as the component field name.
Okay, no setter method is created.
We can override the accessor method if we want.
You can override this age method and you can write custom logic if you want it.
We can add more method if required.
Nobody is going to stop us.
Similarly, you can override equals, hashCode and toString method.
It's like this.
You can provide an override it.
You can override it and provide your implementation.
That should be totally fine.
Now let's see nested records.
So this nested records are very much similar to nested classes but with one minor change.
If you don't know about nested classes, I have already covered into the Java playlist, right?
So nested classes can be of static non-static.
So that is all covered.
So I would highly recommend check it out this If you don't know what is nested classes before you start
the nested records.
So here if you see in records we can also create nested records also, which can be private protected
public like nested classes very similar to nested classes.
No change in that.
Only one change in that is record can only be static.
In record we can only have static nested record.
Okay, there is no concept of non static nested records okay.
So there is only one thing called static nested record like this here.
If you see I am creating one record user and these are my fields record components.
Now I am within this record.
Within this record I am creating one.
nested record.
Okay, so I am creating one nested address record.
So here, just like this I am creating a record.
My record name and I don't have any field.
So that's why it is empty.
And internally it is just a method.
So by default here if you see I haven't tell whether it's a static non-static nothing.
So by default it's static only okay.
If you remember from the nested class we have something called static and non static.
So if there is nothing on a class it would consider as a non-static.
And for static you have to write it.
But here in the nested records if you don't write it by default it is static only.
You don't have to write static here.
Okay.
And we can access it in a similar way like we access a nested classes.
Okay.
So here I am creating.
So I am I need to create an object of this one.
Right?
So user dot, this is just like I'm creating an object of this.
This is a reference.
So this is a static right.
So how we can access it from the directly the class name.
So it belongs.
So this belongs to a class.
This belongs to a class.
Okay.
So user dot user dot this.
So like we have done in nested class nothing different.
And once you get an object you can call the display method.
It will get more clear with this example.
Now here if you see I have created a record.
This is my record name.
And in the record components I have defined this too.
So I have created first this record okay address record.
And I haven't defined anything.
So by default it is static.
Similarly I have created one static class.
Okay.
And this is my nested nested class.
I have created nested.
You can say the static class okay.
And I have also created nested class.
But I haven't defined anything so it is non-static.
So I have three things.
One is nested record which is by default static.
And I have two.
One is nested class which is static.
Another is another nested class which is non-static.
So here if you see you can access in similar way like we do it.
So first you want to access the record.
You create an object new and access like this user dot nested address record.
So this is static right.
So you can access like user dot this.
Okay.
And then you can create a new object of this, and then you call the display similarly nested class
which is static.
The similar way user dot address static class.
Okay, I am creating an instance of it and then I'm calling the display method.
Now this is non static nested class.
So this is how we are creating.
So I am creating.
So now here if you see the difference is this is non static means this is not attached to this class
user.
You this is attached to an instance.
So you need an object of user.
So that's why I'm first creating an object of user.
So I created an object of user.
Then from this object user object I am accessing it user object dot new.
Now I am creating It's instance like this.
Okay.
And then call the display.
So this is all the concept we have already seen into this topic.
And that's why starting mentioned that if you know the nested class this would be very simple.
Like because we have already discussed in depth into this topic.
It's just like we are now replicating it with nested records.
Okay.
Similarly we have like and yeah, one question might have come to you that hey, why only static records
are allowed.
Why, if we are keeping it everything same with the nested class.
Nested class can be static.
Non-static.
Why?
Here in the records only static is allowed.
So I'm sharing my view.
I told you that record is transparent.
Data carrier means just by looking at the record itself, you can tell what data it is carrying.
So let's say user is carrying a string object.
Okay.
But if we are saying hypothetically for now I am creating one nested record.
So within this user I am creating one nested record address which has this record component string b.
So we are saying hypothetically that it is non-static for now consider that this is non-static.
Since we assume that nested record is non-static this is address is non-static means it can access the
parent class fields.
It can access this string a also okay means internally somewhere it has a reference of this user.
Correct means address contains reference of user.
That's why it able to access the instance of this parent record means internally it might be having
like this address.
This address internally might be having like this.
It has an object of reference of user.
So this is contradicting with our definition.
That record is a transparent data carrier.
And all the fields which it carry it is there in the record component.
So if it is a non-static means it can access the non-static fields which is this.
And to access it, it need an object.
And to have an object means internally it somewhere to store it.
And if it store it means then it is not a transparent data carrier.
Because I do not see here in the record component of the address.
So it violates it.
So that's why I believe that it make it like, hey, it can only be static because this is a transparent
clear that, hey, it only carries this string object.
Nothing else.
Because since it is static, it belongs to a class.
It cannot access this instance variables of the parent record.
It can only access the static objects of parent record only, not an instance one.
So you don't need an instance reference.
Okay.
Hope that clarifies.
Similarly we have something called local records.
Local records means within a block like if condition block while block you are creating a record.
Again similar to local classes we have seen.
Similar to local class, we can also create local records means record within a block like method block
if condition block anything.
Again, its access modifier is similar to local classes.
Only local record cannot be declared public.
Private protected.
Why?
Because.
See, when within a block you are creating a record.
There is no point in making it private public protected because its scope is limited to this block only.
So why we have to provide this unnecessary private public protected access wire?
So whatever, whenever you are creating a record within a block, its scope is this block only.
Okay.
And local record cannot be initiated outside of the block.
Again, another thing is, let's say if you have created the record within this block, its scope is
within this block, then you can also initialize it.
You can create an object of this new within this block only like a simple local class also.
Also, there is no static local record.
Why?
Because static means something belongs to a class.
But local record scoped to a block only, not class.
So can you make this, uh, record static?
Does it make sense?
Static means that whatever you are creating, it belongs to a class.
But here, if you see, once this block is finished, the scope of this record is also finished.
It do not belongs to a class.
Its scope is only to this block.
So static is also doesn't make sense to a local record.
So here if you see this is how we can do similar like a local class we used to do.
So I am creating a record user.
These are the components.
Okay.
Now here let's say this is one method which I have.
And within this method scope.
Within this method scope I am creating this local record record record name, whatever the record components
it takes.
okay.
And the whatever the methods or functionality you want to add.
So now I told you that it's object can be within the block itself, this block.
So this method block itself it we can create an object of it okay.
So I can create a new address and initialize this internally.
Implicitly it will create a canonical instructor.
So that would get initialized.
And you can then access it with this address dot you can invoke it okay.
Now outside you have to call this print address.
How you will call you have to create an object of this okay.
So you have to create an object of user.
So I'm creating an object of new user and provided the values.
And once you got the object I am calling this method print address and this will first create this address
object and then invoke it.
Again, very much similar to local classes.
Nothing.
No fancy.
Only thing is, if you understand record that it is just a shorthand of writing an immutable class.
That's all.
Nothing difference at all.
Okay, now again, let's come back to a question that, hey, why we need record itself when we can
do this with a number, say with Lombok.
You need to add a library into the pom.xml.
Means it is not a.
It is supported through some external party.
It is not Java functionality.
Now with this record, Java internally support this.
You don't need to add any external library to your pom.xml.
That is one very big part.
Second is that Lombok only helps you to reduce the boiler code.
You don't need to write all this code like it will generate a getter for you.
It will generate all this thing, but it never restrict you.
Even if you write a setter code here, like set name, can it restrict you?
No, but record will.
If you are using a record, it will never let you add the setter method.
Okay, so it is more restrictive because now this is in control of Java.
And that's why one of the reason you can say that the record you will see more enhancements uh, with
uh like record.
You can use record with the sealed classes and interfaces.
So lot more enhancement.
Even the pattern matching we will see in the next part.
Pattern matching in instance of and switch.
The record is supported because this is now belongs to like true Java.
So at multiple places we are utilizing it.
Okay.
So that's one of the reason why how it is different from Lombok.
Okay.
So do practice it out.
Uh it's very simple.
Uh, but only thing is, if you want take it out from your hand, it will, uh, things become pretty
clear.
And, uh.
Yeah.
Do check out this local, uh, local classes and nested classes.
Uh, if you have faced any difficulty in understanding this part, how to create local class, how to
create nested class.
Because record is nothing but a simple similar to that one.
Okay, uh, any doubt, let me know in the comment section we can discuss further.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Java 15: Text Blocks ---

Hey guys and welcome back to the channel.
And today in Java we are going to cover Text block.
It's a Java 15 feature.
But before we understand more about it we need to understand the problem why it has been introduced
first okay so let's start without wasting any time.
So following are the two common use cases for using multi-line string in Java code okay.
So first use case is the SQL query.
I think if we are working this is something which we have all encountered.
We have to write an SQL query to access the table and all.
And generally our SQL queries in Java code is like this in a multi line.
It's a multi line string.
Similarly if you are writing test cases okay.
So you might have used this also second use case.
So this is a JSON.
But we have to compare.
So generally in test case what generally happened is we provide an input and we get the output and we
have to validate the output.
Hey, is this output is what I what is expected or not?
And many times the output is in JSON string.
So we have to validate okay whatever the JSON I am getting, is this expected or not.
So we have to match it up.
Okay, so many times we have to write the expected JSON in the J unit okay.
Or maybe you are not in j unit.
If you are writing a functional test case in that it is definitely required okay.
So now here if you see these are the two common use cases in Java where we have to write the multiline
string.
But the disadvantage of this is it is difficult to read.
Why?
Because due to so many special characters.
So we have a new line characters here.
If you see we have a new line characters.
Then you have to have a escape character.
So now here, if you see, uh, in the JSON string, I need this double quote name double quotes.
So to have this double quotes I need to have escape it.
Okay.
So that's why we have a escape character.
Then we have a string concatenation because it's a multiline right.
So we have to concatenate the string.
Because of this it becomes very difficult to read.
Another is it is error prone.
So here if you see this JSON string do you identify any issue?
I intentionally miss the comma here okay.
But see with this so many special characters I couldn't able able to identify if something is missing
or not.
So it's an error prone okay.
So generally here if you see that comma should be present here.
But here I missed it.
But see it's very difficult to identify.
It is hard to maintain for sure as small change required editing multiple line carefully.
Okay, so if you have to change something here, let's say you have to be very careful that okay, this
escape character should not be removed or it should be in this place only.
So it's tough if you are making or editing something big.
Okay, not good for copy paste for sure.
You can't copy.
You can't copy this JSON string and paste it somewhere or use it somewhere.
So many times what happens is in the DB we have a DB tool where we can run the query.
You can't simply copy this query and paste it here and run it.
You have to take care of removing this special characters okay.
So these are a problems which exist with multi line string and that's where the text block comes.
So it's a solution for all of this which is finalized in Java 15.
So it's preview is available in I think 13 and 14.
Uh but it's finalized in 15.
So we have to only use it.
I would say that when it is standardized.
So it is standardized in Java 15.
So it's a multiline string literal used to make writing and reading multiline text easier.
So here if you see this is the literal.
So three double quotes.
So when we are using three times double quote and whatever we will write in between.
Now see it is very very clear, easy to read and easy to write.
You can directly copy the string and paste it okay.
So it start and end with three double quotes.
Okay.
Now let's see the same two example with the text block.
So this was the our SQL query which was very very difficult to read.
Now with the text block I have used three double quotes start and end.
And between it just write multiline string.
Whatever you want to write.
It will automatically take care of adding this new line, okay.
And whatever it escaping and all, it will take care of it.
Similarly for JSON string here, if you see now it's very clear starting and ending with three double
quotes and in between your multiline string.
So here, if you see I am not putting any, uh, new line character, I am not using string concatenation,
I am not using escape characters.
So everything is handled by the text block itself.
Clear.
So internally text block is compiled into regular string object only.
So you can say that it is just a sugar coating.
So this text block is just a sugar coating internally.
When we complete the compilation of it ultimately we get this only.
Okay.
So here if you see this is one I have written.
Okay.
So starting and ending with three double quotes.
And between it I have written the JSON string okay.
Like normal.
Now if I compile it the dot class file you will see after compilation you will see the same thing.
The usual one okay.
So it has newline character.
It has escape character okay.
So everything is same what it used to be.
So that's why it is just a sugar coating just for reading and writing better.
But internally it's a regular string object only.
And we will see that that all methods which are applicable on string is also applicable here also.
So no difference in that.
We will see that.
But one thing I want to clarify that yes, after compilation both looks same, but during compilation
it follows certain rules.
So we need to follow those rules.
If we have certain like say uh you have to manually you have some manual requirement, okay.
Then you have to follow those rules.
Otherwise it will you can say that compile it with the default, uh whatever it has because C multiple
rules.
It has, it has to uh, remove White space from front and back.
This is just one example.
So what are the by default rule it follows?
Okay I will remove it.
So it will remove it.
And then after that you will get this dot class file after following those rules.
But if you have but it provides this text text block, provide us the control that hey you can change
this rule also.
So for changing the rule we have to first understand the rules.
Okay.
So first rule is with the opening delimiter.
After opening delimiter this three double quotes, text or content is not allowed on the same line.
So here if you see this is correct way.
So three quotes.
So means it's a starting delimiter.
You can say that starting opening delimiter.
Now my text or whatever the content is starting from the next line, not from the same line.
Okay, so this is wrong.
So here, if you see, I tried my content to be on the same line here with the opening delimiter and
it says illegal text block start missing newline after opening quotes.
So this is the first rule after opening delimiter content is not allowed on the same line.
A question might have come why?
So why?
Why this rule exists?
C compiler tried to remove the indentation.
Indentation is means like number of spaces before the text.
Okay, this rules makes the compiler job easy.
It can easily determine how many whitespace need to be removed.
So understand with this example.
Now let's say that this rule doesn't exist.
For now, we are just assuming that this rule does not exist.
So here, if you see that my opening delimiter, this one three double quotes and after that my content
start.
Hello.
And after that, in the second line I have certain spaces, let's say for space I have present one,
two, three, four.
And after that I have world word.
Now compiler is confused.
Now how many spaces I need to remove here I have zero space and here in the next line I have four space.
So how many front spaces I need to remove 0 or 4.
Similarly, with this rule exists, it says that okay, after the opening delimiter, the text or content
start from the next line.
Now all the content all your text is now from this.
Okay.
So this is the starting delimiter.
Now with every new line you have your content correct.
Now it can easily determine what is the minimum number of whitespaces it need to remove before the text.
Okay, so it will remove this from every line.
So you can say that this is one rule which exists to make the compiler job easy.
The second rule is indentation.
All whitespaces before the leftmost text or content is removed.
Indentation you means like leading whitespace.
Now we know that compiler remove the white space in front of your text.
The leading white space.
But how many in how many white spaces from the front?
It removes the it has a rule for that also.
So here if you see that all white spaces before the left most text or content is removed.
So this is important.
Leftmost text or content.
Now what.
Which one is the left most text or content.
So now see this with example.
So three double quotes start and from the next line my content is starting.
So this is my content till here till it is not closing.
We can say that it is our content.
Okay.
Now which one is the leftmost text.
So here if you see this one.
Okay so this is my leftmost content present right.
So in compiler use compiler find out what is the leftmost text or content.
Okay.
And before that it remove all the spaces all leading white spaces before the leftmost content is removed.
Okay, and any white space after this leftmost content is preserved.
So I intentionally, uh, this closing bracket I have keep it, uh, very front so that you can see
that this space, the front will be removed and after this leftmost, whatever the space is there white
space, this will get preserved.
Okay.
So this rule is also clear.
The third rule is trailing white space.
So we understand what what's the rule with the leading white space which is known as indentation.
Now for the trailing white space by default all trailing whitespace are removed okay.
So here if you see this is one example.
Now after this comma I have some white space added.
So if you compile it you will see that this is removed.
There is no white space.
But if you want to preserve it, we have to use this character at the end.
So now I am using the.
You can see that the trailing white space, which I have to preserve, I have to use this character.
So these are all the white space.
I don't want to get it removed.
So that's why I use this special character.
And when you compile it you will see this space is preserved.
Now after comma this white space is preserved.
So trailing white space, if you have to preserve you have to use this.
Then another rule is with a continuation character by default in text block.
For each new line, a new line character is adding in the compiled string.
Okay, So I already showed you that this is line one.
This is line two.
When you see the dot class file it is already has that line one.
It has backslash n, it is a new line character added.
And then it has line two.
So this is the default behavior for each line.
It automatically add a new line character.
But what if you want this in continuation line one.
Line two.
Even though in the text block you want to write this in a separate line or sometime take another example
is you have a very big URL.
Okay, you have a very, very big URL.
And it is better that instead of like have in a single line, you divide it into multiple lines.
Okay?
And if you are using three double quotes text block, then with new line it will automatically add new
line character.
And then this will break what your intention is.
You want only a single line.
but with the text block you can't use it, because with each line it will create a special character
which is not intended.
So there is a way.
So if you want to have a string continuation, you can use a continuation character.
This one at the end.
Okay.
So now here if you see this is a single line even though it looks like a multiple lines.
Okay.
So here if you compile it you know that it will, it will print like this slash n slash and slash n
here it will print slash and here it will print slash n.
And here it will print slash n.
Because for each line it will print a slash n character.
But if you are using a continuation character here at the end okay.
Now here, if you see this is a single line, even though it looks like multiple line okay.
So at the end I haven't put it.
So that's why it put slash n.
Got it.
So these are certain rules.
Very simple.
Now, I already told you that this text block is nothing but a normal string.
So whatever the methods which we can apply on a string, we can also apply here also.
So this is a text block.
Okay.
I am just applying dot to uppercase like a normal string like whatever the method.
So here if you see these are all methods which we can apply on string.
Similarly we can apply over the text block also.
So this is my text block.
Another example is name.
You can use the uh like a variable which we can fill it through formatted like here I have used a percentage
s country percentage s and dot formatted this method.
I am using dot formatted and I can fill this data.
So I will go here in the first one.
In the second it will go here.
So ultimately you will get name Shreyansh country India okay.
So we can use this also.
So like a normal string we can use it okay.
So this is very very simple test block.
But yes many engineers get confused with the rules.
Rules are very easy if you understood it once and just practice it once.
And then it is very, very easy to use in your code and it would be really clear when you will read
it or also while writing it would be very easy.
Okay, so I would say that start using it instead of this, uh, using special characters like how we
used to do previously.
So okay, so it already a standardized feature, start using it into the production code.
No worries, it will get approved.
Okay, guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Java Optional from Java 8 to 11 ---

/* Sanitization Error: No valid JSON object found */
