

=== LLD (Low Level Design) ===


--- What is LLD and Pattern Categories? Difference between Is-a & Has-a relationship ---

Side.
Welcome back to the channel.
So today's video is gonna be short, but it's important because I still feel many engineers has doubt
with like what are the categories of low level design or what is even low level design and what are
some of its relationship?
Okay, so yes, let's start without wasting any time.
Uh, so low level design is majorly focused on classes and objects within a system.
Okay.
So somewhere if I have to place it, I will place it between the high level design and the actual code.
So high level design is somewhat you can say that the architecture of a complete system.
So let's say here you have component one, component two, component three how they are interacting
with each other okay.
So it's a overall architecture of a system.
Actual code is your actual implementation okay.
So low level design is between it.
So low level design it says that for component one, we are double clicking it.
And if we see, we are seeing what all classes and objects present into that, how they are interacting
with each other and that ultimately get converted into a actual code.
Okay, so that's why it somewhere placed between the high level design and the actual code.
So the purpose of low level design is to write clean code.
Okay.
So that's why it is very important I always says that hey writing a code is not difficult.
High level design and low level design coming up with the design.
Proper design is more important because with that design we can easily write the code.
Okay, nowadays even the AI can write the code, but this design is very important.
Okay, so the main purpose of low level design is to write a clean code.
Code should be flexible and maintainable, and code should be easy to test.
Okay, so there could be many, but according to me, these three are very important are features which
should be present into a good low level design.
Okay, so if we see our categories of low level design it is generally divided into three.
That is creational structural and behavioral.
So creational is like which controls the object creation.
So here the categories of a pattern right.
So there are so many patterns already present okay.
So all this pattern is solving one specific problem.
You can say that so that we don't have to reinvent the wheel okay.
So there is certain problem okay.
And there is certain pattern already solving it okay.
So we have to understand those patterns which already exists, and those pattern falls into one of these
category.
Okay.
So we have sometime what happened is like I'll just tell you understanding of the pattern is not mandatory
okay.
So for example you are given a question that okay you have to design parking lot, let's say.
And it is not mandatory that you should know the pattern.
Maybe you encounter some problem that okay I need this kind of scenario, I need this and you are automatically
or yourself finding out the solution.
So you are coming up with the classes are and how they are interacting.
Okay.
So you might be doing the same thing.
Which pattern there is already a pattern exist for it.
Okay, so what I'm trying to say is that knowing the pattern is not mandatory, but it's you can say
that helpful when we encounter a problem.
And that problem is already solved through a particular pattern, so that we don't have to reinvent
the same thing.
Okay, this is a problem now how to solve it.
And now we are trying to come up with okay, this should be the classes.
This should be the relationship.
And now it is solving.
We already have a pattern for that okay.
So there are uh like so many patterns uh, we will cover.
Right.
We have already covered and I will share it here.
So here the first category is Creational.
So it controls the object creation okay.
So we have different objects okay.
How this object gonna be created.
So the creational patterns controls it like singleton pattern.
Singleton pattern means no matter how many times the caller are invoking hey, give me an object.
Give me an object.
Only one object is created and that would be shared to all.
So only one copy of an object exists.
Okay.
So it falls into the category of creational.
I am controlling how the object need to be created.
Similarly, we have builder factory abstract factory.
Object pool prototype.
These are different patterns which falls into Creational and these all controls how object need to be
created.
For example builder it controls that.
Okay.
The complete object need to be created in step by step.
Small small small.
Small steps.
Just keep on creating the objects into different steps.
Okay.
In further video you will learn about these.
Okay.
So but this is a very high level that what this category is.
The second category is structural.
Structural says that how different classes and objects are arranged together so that the larger problem
can be solved in most flexible way.
For example, The larger problem is you have to develop a car, just for example, and now say that
you have different different classes or objects.
Let's say one object is wheel, another object is engine, another object is let's say, uh, certain
uh, headlights.
Okay.
And another object is steering.
There have so many objects.
Okay.
Now how these objects are arranged so that the bigger problem is solved.
That's what structural category says.
So there are so many patterns like decorator, proxy, composite adapter, bridge, facade and flyweight.
These all falls into the category of structural pattern.
Okay, because there are more concerned about how the objects are arranged together.
So consider it as a skeleton.
So we have created a skeleton okay.
So these are all the classes and objects.
And this is how all are arranged.
So consider this as we have created a skeleton okay.
So they are arranged in such a way that the larger problem is resolved.
Then the third category is behavioral.
It focuses on how different objects communicate or interact with each other.
So if in other word I would I would have to say I would say that the structural pattern will create
the skeleton of the system.
You have different classes, you have different objects and how they are arranged, but how that skeleton
behaves, the coordination among them, the responsibility, the interaction is all guided by behavioral
pattern.
Understand with this simple example that you have only three classes okay.
Class one, class two, class three.
So now class two has to interact with class three.
So what?
So whether it has to call directly to class three or let's say that it need to be like here, class
one, class two, class three.
So class two goes to it's another class.
Hey pass it to class three and then it goes to the class three okay.
So here it has an orchestrator.
So there are different ways of coordination or communication.
Or you can say that interaction.
So that is guided by behavioral.
What should be the behavior of the skeleton which you have developed okay.
So there are so many patterns which belongs to this category okay.
So that is clear.
So this is something very important in the sense uh but there is nothing like we have to spend so much
time understanding this because you will ultimately get to learn more about it when you go through each
and every, uh, design pattern individually.
Okay.
Now another thing where most confusion comes is has a and is a relationship.
Okay.
And also I will tell you my way of remembering it.
Uh, so but first let's see is a relationship is nothing but an inheritance okay.
So here let's say you have a vehicle and there are two child classes two Wheeler and four Wheeler.
So it is generally represented as two Wheeler is a vehicle four Wheeler is a vehicle okay.
So this is a child class.
This is also a child class.
This is a parent class.
So it is an inheritance.
So two Wheeler is a vehicle four Wheeler is a vehicle.
Similarly let's say you have employee and then you have CEO.
CEO is a employee.
You have a manager.
Manager is a employee okay.
So it represents inheritance.
Now let's come to Hazar.
a has a means.
There is a link between two objects.
Okay.
And you can say that generally normal has a means association.
Association means link between two objects like house has rooms.
Library has books.
School has a students.
So there is a link between two objects okay.
So this is known as association.
And it is generally represented like this.
Okay one more thing.
This association has two parts.
Aggregation and composition.
So here you can say that this association has two parts.
One is aggregation which is weak relationship.
Another is composition which is strong relationship okay.
So association is generally represented as like this which is nothing but a has a relationship okay.
And if we go more specific.
Hey, what kind of association is this?
Is it a week?
Is it a strong.
Then we have to focus more on aggregation and composition.
Let's focus on aggregation.
Weak relationship.
Existence of one object is not depend on another.
For example, library has books.
Okay, so here, if you see that we have one object library another, we have books.
So in general library has books.
So it has a relationship library has books.
But if you want to go one level more deeper is it a strong relationship or weak relationship.
So just see that hey can a book object exist even if the library object is destroyed or if library destroyed,
can book exists?
Yes, both can exist independently.
Their existence is not dependent on each other.
So that's where it is known as weak relationship.
Existence of one object is not dependent on another.
Okay.
And this is represented as like this a hollow diamond and then a line okay.
So library has books now.
Also one more thing is that generally it is like this.
So you have a class library and you have a list of books.
But here it do not manage books.
It do not add books or it do not delete books or it do not.
You can say that update something, it do not manage it, it only knows about it.
Library has books, but it don't manage it because it's a weak relationship.
Even if library is broken or object is gone, books still will exist.
Okay, books can still be added, newly books can still be deleted.
Okay, so it's independent of library.
So library is not responsible for adding a book, deleting a book and all.
It just knows about it.
In contrast, like we have a composition, the composition like existence of one object is depend on
another.
House has rooms.
If house gone, room is gone.
Two room cannot exist independently.
It depend on house and that's why it is shown like this.
So you have a filled total filled diamond and then a line.
So house has rooms.
But this is a strong relationship.
That's why it is shown like this a filled diamond and the line and if you have to go a code like this,
you will see a class house.
And it has a list of rooms.
It knows about rooms.
But here the difference is that this house class is also responsible for, let's say, creating room
objects.
Also, because rooms existence depends on the house, so house should managing it.
Okay, so that is clear right now.
I'll tell you my way of uh doing this UML and also in the further videos when you are go through it
in, you will see that.
Notice that see in my view UML is for us okay.
So generally LD round we have machine coding.
And then we have like 145 or 2 40 minutes round 40 to 45 minutes round.
So machine coding is generally uh like 1 to 2 hour mostly I think mostly two hours.
Okay.
So here you need complete code, full code.
And in 40 to 45 minutes round generally mostly they also expecting the code sometime not fully.
See, I am all telling you based on my experience I might be wrong.
Okay, so I am telling you from my experience, based on the so many rounds I have given, I have taken
on that experience.
I am saying code is required in this round 40 45 minutes interview also, but sometime it is not expect
like you fully functional and also many companies will not provide you a code where you can create a
UML like this.
Okay, but the thing is, you can't code until you don't know what all classes you need to create.
What's the relationship between them?
What are is the child classes?
What are the parent classes okay.
Which has a relationship.
Is the relationship like all okay.
So you need to know the UML.
But the thing is let's say if 40 45 minutes round, if the interviewer is expecting a code, definitely
we should not spend much time like only ten 15 minutes.
We should be only spending on UML because we have to code.
Also because if we don't code, then there is a high chance that interviewer will not select us.
Okay, this is again based on my experience.
I'm telling you.
So instead of like remembering, okay, connection should be like this or it should be full diamond
like this always go with.
I always go with.
Like arrow has a relationship.
Arrow is a relationship.
So it's always clear like it is because mostly for me okay.
And I have a clear understanding has a relationship means these objects have a relation is a relationship.
Means is a parent child relationship okay.
So you have to save some time for the coding.
I would say that yes you need to understand the relationship properly okay.
And it's up to you how you want to create a UML, how much time you are getting in the interview.
Okay.
And uh, yeah, I think that's mostly I want to discuss today.
Okay.
So yeah, go with the UML proper UML if you want.
You have time or go with like either shortcut.
I said you like go with an arrow and but put here above is a and has a relationship okay okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- SOLID Principles ---

Another side.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today in LD we will see solid principles.
So before I start with this topic I will tell you why it is required.
So see we we know that there are so many design patterns we have and each pattern follow this principle.
And if you remember, I also told you that the usage of this pattern is not mandatory.
Let's say in interview you got certain question, okay that hey design parking lot or design XYZ any
system.
So it is not mandatory that you should use certain pattern.
You can come up with the classes, objects, their relationship by your own.
Okay, that's totally fine.
But whatever the solution, whatever the classes and relationship which you are coming up.
Okay.
That should follow these principles.
So that's what I am trying to say, that these principles are the guideline.
You can say that these are the fundamentals.
No matter if you are using a pattern, that pattern, we know that it's a already tested it's a flexible
solution to a already.
You can say that some problem which already exists.
So we don't have to reinvent the wheel in identifying the same or solving the same problem.
Again, we can directly use the pattern, but we know that those patterns which are present, they are
already following those principles.
And these principles are the one that actually make this design clean, flexible, okay and easy to
maintain.
So again, usage of pattern is not mandatory.
You can come up with your completely new design of your classes and objects.
But these design whichever you are coming up with should follow this principle.
Now let's see what are these principle?
So we have solid which stands for S single responsibility O open closed principle L Liskov substitution
principle I interface segregation principle.
Dependency inversion principle okay.
And this advantage which gives us is that help us to write better code.
Avoid duplicate code.
Easy to maintain.
Easy to understand flexible reduce complexity.
So if you follow this principle these all advantages we can get.
Now let's see each principle one by one.
What is single responsibility principle.
It states that a class should have only one reason to change, meaning it should have only one responsibility,
one job.
And I will also tell you there is one confusion which engineers get that, uh, I will tell you after
this.
After once I told you the solution and the solution, then I will tell you that what generally question
engineers ask.
Okay, so with single responsibility, we get to know that what definition says that a class should
have only one responsibility?
Okay.
So understand with this example which violates the single responsibility.
So this is one object as an object marker which we are using it okay.
And now we sorry.
So I have an invoice class.
This invoice class is responsible for doing certain computation okay.
So this is let's say a business logic to compute the total price.
It is also responsible for saving the data to DB.
And also it is responsible for printing the invoice.
So this class is responsible for so many things.
Now the problem with the above code is that In future, let's say you have to change the logic of insertion
into the DB.
So let's say save to db.
This is SQL.
Now in future you want to change it to NoSQL.
You have to change the code.
Then let's say today you are printing the invoice.
Now you have to future you have to change the logic.
Then you again have to change this class.
So for each, when there are more responsibilities, then it is possible that this already class which
is tested and in production and with every change it has to be tested again.
So there is a higher chance of human error.
Okay.
So this violates SRP because if the tax calculation rule change in future we need to modify the invoice
class.
If database structure change again we have to modify this class.
So if there are so many requirements we are putting, then there is a high chance that this class will
get modified too frequently.
So here, if you are following the single responsibility, let's see how it can be.
You can improve.
This code can be improved.
Again, this is an object.
Same thing.
Nothing new in that one.
So this I have one class for invoice.
Now this class is only responsible for my business computation.
Let's say computing the total price.
That's it.
Now I created a separate class invoice.
Now this class is totally responsible for saving the data to DB.
And yes, I am accepting the invoice whatever the invoice I have.
Okay.
So let's say this class, whatever the data I have that I will use it to save to DB.
So this is just uh, you can say that internal logic.
What, what I want you to tell I have a separate class which is now responsible for managing the database
operation only.
Similarly, I have invoice printer class.
Its responsibility is just printing the invoice.
Okay, so now in future if you want to like change the how we how you are storing the data into the
DB only this class will get changed.
This class and this class will be untouched.
Okay.
Similarly, in future if printer logic is changed, only this class get impacted.
This and this again its untouched and you don't need to test it again.
Okay, so now I will tell you what.
One question generally comes from an engineer that hey, does it mean that one class can only have one
method?
No.
What I mean to say here is that one class should have only one responsibilities.
You can say that the logical grouping.
Ping.
If we are going to keep only one method in one class, we are going to have like class explosion.
We have to create so many classes.
It just like logical grouping we are doing so all methods which are related to computation we can put
into this class.
There could be 1020 methods which is related to DB.
We can put it here okay.
Similarly for printer, if there are more so we can group logically okay.
So it's never like one method one class.
We can have multiple method in one class.
But those should be logical grouped okay.
So the benefit you will see that yes single responsibility.
If there is a change in invoice text calculation only specific class will change similarly for DB.
Similarly for printer.
So you can maintain your code better, improve testability and enhance the reusability.
Say, for example, if anybody used this printer class or logic, they can use it.
So you can reuse it also because it's in a separate class.
The second is open closed principle.
So open closed principle says that a class should be open for extension but closed for modification.
What does it mean?
It means that new functionality can be added through inheritance rather than modifying existing code.
The problem with that is that existing code is already tested and deployed in production.
Adding modification would introduce additional risk and required additional testing effort.
So understand with this example.
So yes we have created invoice Dao right.
So it is responsible for saving into the DB Okay, it's already tested and it's already live.
Now let's say that in future I have added one more that save to file.
Earlier it was saved to DB.
I have added save to file in future.
Let's say this one is SQL.
I have added another class save to NoSQL.
So another thing comes is that.
You have to keep modify the class which is already tested.
Okay.
And why you have to modify because you are adding a new feature.
So save to DB it was there.
Then save to file.
It's a new feature.
Then you are modifying the existing class then save to NoSQL DB.
This is again a new feature, but again you are modifying the existing class.
So this violating this principle what it says that open for extension but closed for modification.
So we achieve this with inheritance.
So we can create invoice Dao interface and we can have multiple child.
Okay.
One is DB invoice Dao one is for DB specific logic.
Another is file specific feature.
Another is let's say in memory.
Or then you have future let's say NoSQL depend.
So whenever new feature is there you can extend it.
Okay.
So it's like open for extension okay.
It is open.
But let's say in future you are adding NoSQL DB support.
So you will add a new child class.
You don't need to modify the existing one which are already tested and in life.
So that's what we did.
So invoice Dao now is an interface.
So database invoice Dao implements this interface and it override this save method and provide its implementation.
Similarly for file invoice.
Now it does the same thing.
Okay.
So it implements the invoice and provide an implementation for it.
Safe.
How it wanted to save the data.
Okay.
So you can easily see that now it reduced the risk.
Reduce the risk of like if you are already changing into already tested code, definitely the risk get
increased okay of an error, but now it reduced the risk of an error.
You can better maintain it because now each responsibility is in two different different classes.
Okay.
Yeah.
Flexibility.
Easy to add new behavior without touching the existing code okay.
So yeah OCP very important principle.
Another is Liskov Liskov substitution principle.
It states that object of superclass should be replaceable with object of subclass without breaking the
application.
Okay.
And also so consider with this scenario.
So this is class A.
This is class B it is child of it okay.
And another is that you have an interface not a child.
So this is interface.
And this interface has two child class A class B okay.
So this is an interface.
And this interface has two child.
So this Liskov substitution principle says that let's say today in this scenario if you have in your
code you have let's say class A object okay.
So today let's say you have certain the code if you replace this with the class B.
So what it says that the object of superclass should be replaced with the object of subclass without
breaking.
The application means if class B is a subtype of class A, if class B is a subtype of class A, then
we should be able to replace object of A with B without breaking the behavior of the program.
Okay, if I change it okay.
If I start accepting this in class B, its object, then again it should not break the behavior.
And in this case of the interface where you have multiple child then it should be replaceable.
So today you are accepting certain data into the class A, and if you change it to class B again it
should behave properly.
It should not break the functionality.
So in simple term, if I have to say we should only extend the capability of a parent class, we should
never narrow it down.
Understand with this example.
Now it would more clarify you.
Let's say I have an interface bike, so I am using this scenario.
I have an interface bike and it has multiple abstract method.
Let's say turn on the engine, turn off engine, accelerate, apply brake and it has two child, one
is motorcycle which is a bike, and the bicycle again it's a bike.
So it is implementing this method.
Turn on the engine.
It's making the engine on.
Turn off the engine.
It is making the engine off.
Accelerate.
Speed is increased.
Apply.
Brake speed is decreased.
Now in the bicycle.
If you notice that turn on the engine, it is throwing an exception.
Turn off the engine.
It is throwing an exception because the bicycle do not have engine accelerate.
Yes, we are increasing the speed of cycle brake.
We are decreasing the speed of cycle.
But here, if you see that we are breaking the Liskov substitution principle.
How?
Now see this code?
I have an object.
Okay.
Let's say bike object.
So I have a new motorcycle.
It's objects.
Motorcycle object okay so this is bike.
So everything is working fine.
Turn on engine, turn off.
Engine.
Accelerate.
Apply.
Brake.
Everything is working fine.
Now I'm replacing this object with bicycle.
So what?
LSP principle says that in this scenario.
Okay, in the interface one, the object, the all the object at same level.
Generally all the child of this interface, the object should be replaceable without breaking the code.
So now here, if in this one bike object.
Now I replace with from motorcycle to bicycle.
Now if you see that accelerate will work apply brake will work but turn on engine.
It will throw an exception.
This is now not working as expected.
Okay, so the behavior of the code change.
Because my code expectation is that turn on the engine means it will turn on the engine.
But here now it is throwing exception.
Means this is not accepted.
So means your code is not working properly now.
So means you can't replace the motorcycle with the bicycle.
Okay.
So you got this one.
Like how the LSP principle is violation here.
So problem with the above code is that not all bike have engine.
So let's say if you have an e-bike it doesn't have an engine bicycle.
It doesn't have an engine.
So but the base class forces turn on engine method.
So bicycle throws an exception violating the expected contract.
Client code cannot safely treat all by subclass uniformly.
Okay, so our client code cannot treat motorcycle.
Bicycle like, hey, they will behave in a uniform manner.
No.
So that's where LSP principal comes in.
And it says that.
See this one?
Now, here I have divided the interface in a way that all the child classes is only implementing, like
their feature, like they are.
You can say that it's not narrowing down what is expected.
Let's say engine.
Engine is saying that turn on engine, turn off engine.
Then you have another bike abstract class.
Or you can say the interface it has accelerate and apply brake.
Now motorcycle extends bike and also implements engine because motorcycle can have engine turn on engine
functionality, turn off engine functionality.
It also can accelerate and also apply brake.
So that's why it implemented all four properly.
But now in the case of bicycle it only extend bike, it only extend bike and it only have this accelerate
and apply brake.
Okay.
So now we have a proper you can say that a design where we are not limiting or we are not breaking the
contract.
So now in your client code, if you see I have a motorcycle, I have a bicycle.
Now the motorcycle can do all this functionality which is required.
Similarly bicycle can do all the functionality.
It is required.
Okay.
So your code will not break now.
So that is clear.
Like how to follow the LSP principle.
Very simple that always follow the contract.
Okay, so if an interface or abstract class whatever is has like okay, these are the certain functionality
which objects should have, then all the child classes generally should have that feature.
It's not like okay nine has and one doesn't have those features.
So means our client code now need to have a proper understanding that okay, there might be certain
cases where these feature will not work.
So it's not uniform now.
So LSP says that have a proper interface okay.
So that your child classes only do what is actually they are meant to do.
Okay.
So unnecessary functionality we should not have which they do not even support.
Okay.
The third is that interface segregation principle.
So we have already seen solid, uh, single responsibility.
Open, closed.
Liskov.
So this was the fourth one.
Interface segregation principle.
It states that interface should be such that clients should not implement unnecessary functions that
they do not need.
Again.
So here if you see that I have interface restaurant and I have so many methods now I created one class
waiter.
Now in this it's a child of this restaurant employee is the relationship.
So waiter is an restaurant employee.
Now here if you see that take order.
Yes it is doing.
It is its job.
It provided the proper implementation.
Serve and drinks.
Yes, it does that.
Now here if you see clean the kitchen.
No, it is throwing an exception.
It is not its job.
Prepare food.
It is not its job to decide.
Menu.
It is not its job.
so we are unnecessary forcing the child class right that are unnecessary.
Forcing the child class to implement the method that they don't ever need.
Okay, again, don't get confused that okay, we should never have a method which throws an exception.
No, it doesn't like that.
That's why I specifically mentioned you don't ever need.
So waiter here say that it can never prepare the food or it's the waiter can never decide the menu.
So these functionality can never be there in the waiter.
Okay.
So why unnecessary forcing this child class to implement this method.
But let's say today certain feature is not there.
Yes.
Today you can throw an exception.
It is possible that in future it the capability increase.
Then you can have that.
Okay.
So it's again so see the design is like how we uh there is no one fixed solution.
Okay.
As, as we more discuss there could be multiple solution.
So what I think that if you are following the ISP, we just need to make sure that the child class which
certain functionality can never come, then those.
Then these methods should be avoided.
Then we should not force this class to provide an implementation for which this feature can never come.
But if there is a class today, there is not a feature, but it is possible to add a future, uh, add
a feature in the near future.
Then it is possible that we might be throwing exception today, but tomorrow we will provide the functionality.
Okay.
So clear.
So now here in this case, how we resolve this is that we created the proper interfaces, like with
the specific task, let's say chef task.
So it has its own task what all it has to do waiter task interface.
It has a specific operation with which it has to do similarly maintenance task what all operation it
is supposed to do now that we can create a specific child classes.
Okay.
And now it you can see that the chef child class of the chef task is now only implement this.
Similarly waiter is implementing the waiter task and it is only responsible for this.
So now we are resolving the problem where unnecessarily we are forcing the child class to implement
the method which it doesn't ever need.
Okay, now we have created a smaller, more segregated interfaces and the child class will only implement
that so that they can only provide their implementation what they actually need.
Cool.
So what is the benefit which we are getting?
We prevent the bloating of the classes by having each class implement interface that it uses.
No force dependency on irrelevant functionality.
Cleaner.
More maintainable design code.
Okay, so here don't get confused with the LSP principle and the ISP.
Okay, so in the LSP principle, also if you notice that we have divided the interface right.
But the intention is different.
So LSP principle more focuses on that from the client side code.
The functionality we should not decrease it.
Okay.
So let's say you have an interface and you have multiple child classes.
It's more focus is on that.
They provide some consistent behavior.
Okay.
This behavior should be present.
Yeah behavior could be different but this should be present.
So LSP principle is more on to that.
And it is more focused on that.
That okay.
If any object don't have consistent behavior take it out and put it into different interface.
Okay.
And it's more focus on that.
Your client code should not break when you switch between these objects okay.
So object one.
Object two.
Object three.
So even if you switch between this objects which are part of the same interface, your code should not
break.
Yeah.
You may can get different behavior, but your code should not break because you are expecting these
Functionalities that the contract and LSP is more focused on that.
Okay.
If something is not, uh, providing certain behavior, which is the contract here, then take it out,
okay.
And here in the interface, segregation is more on that.
Like the child class, we should not force it that, hey, provide an implementation of it.
And we know that it's going to never, never have this feature and it's still unnecessary.
It just says that, okay, I don't support it.
I don't support it, I don't support it.
So why unnecessary.
We are forcing the child class to provide an implementation which it doesn't require.
So it more focuses on interface part.
Create an interface small enough or you can say that uh more segregated way.
Don't club so many operations in one have a proper segregated interface.
Okay.
Functionality.
This functionality, all this, uh, functions related to this particular functionality, let's say
chef related task.
All the operations related to this I created on this interface, all the operation related to waiter,
I put here in this interface likewise.
So it more focusing on the interface.
Create a cleaner interfaces.
Don't blot it with so many operations okay I hope that is clear.
And the last one is the dependency inversion principle.
So dependency inversion principle states that high level component should not depend on low level component
directly.
Instead they should depend on abstraction considered with this example.
So here let's say I have an interface keyboard and I have two child classes.
Wired keyboard.
Again wired keyboard is a keyboard, and Bluetooth keyboard is a keyboard.
So these are two children.
Now see this example which is violating the dependency inversion principle.
So I have an object map book.
Now here if you see I am depending.
So MacBook has via keyboard.
So now it is totally depend on low level module directly on this wired keyboard.
So in future if you want to support Bluetooth keyboard would you be able to do it dynamically?
No.
You have to change this class.
So that's what dependency inversion says that hey, you should rely on abstraction rather than low level
components.
And how you can do that.
See that one now in the MacBook I depend on keyboard.
Keyboard is an interface, so it can hold an object of wire keyboard.
It can hold an object of Bluetooth keyboard.
So when creating an object, we can decide what we want it.
So now let's say that first time I am creating an object MacBook and I provided a keyboard.
So now MacBook has wire keyboard.
Now next time I'm creating a MacBook I provided the Bluetooth keyboard object.
So see that is also supported.
But previously when we have hard coded the wired keyboard, is it possible to supply the Bluetooth keyboard?
No, you have already hard coded wire.
There is no way you can dynamically change it.
So that's why we have to rely on abstraction interfaces majorly.
Okay, so I hope this solid principles are clear.
Practice with your hand and if there is any question, let me know.
We can discuss further.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.


=== HLD(High Level Design) ===


--- Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP) Solution ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And from the previous video of Solid principles.
Right.
I got lot many comments that hey for the Liskov substitution principle we know what is the problem but
how to avoid it.
What is the solution.
So in this quick video I will tell you about the risk of the problem plus its solution.
Also how to resolve it.
Okay, so I will use the same example also.
And so let's start with this.
So in the Liskov substitution you already know that if you have a parent class and you have a child
class.
So what does Liskov substitution principle says that you should be able to swap the object substitute
the objects without breaking the code.
Let's say currently I have let's say my parent object equals to new C1.
And I have certain code.
It is working fine.
Now I substitute with this new C1 with, let's say another object, another child object, new C2,
then this program should not break.
It still should be working.
If I change with new C3, it should still be working.
So what does Liskov substitution principle say?
That if you swap or substitute the child or parent objects, the program should not break.
Okay, now let's first understand and then I will tell you a solution.
So let's say I have created a vehicle class.
So vehicle has two things.
Get number of wheels.
So by default I am returning two.
Uh has engine.
By default it is returning.
True.
Yes, it has engine.
So now I have created two child class.
One is motorcycle.
Right.
So motorcycle get number of wheels.
Two.
So that's why it didn't override it and has engine.
Yes.
It is also true.
So that's why it didn't override this method.
So motorcycle is one child class another is car.
So car also extends vehicle.
So it's another child of vehicle.
And it has four vehicles instead of two.
So it is overriding this method.
Get number of fields for very simple parent child relationship.
And let's say this is the client code.
And in the client code I created a list.
And in the list I have added a motorcycle and a car okay.
So list of vehicle, list of vehicle.
And in the list of vehicle I added one, I added one motorcycle and then I added one car.
Okay.
Now what I am doing is I'm iterating one by one and just printing.
Does vehicle has engine dot two string.
Let's say this is my business code okay.
Vehicle dot has engine dot two string.
So first vehicle is motorcycle.
So motorcycle dot has engine.
So it will call this.
It will return true.
Then it will.
The next object is new car.
So new car dot has engine.
So car has engine method.
Okay.
It hasn't override it.
So it will call this method.
So it will return true dot two string.
So this will work so very simple that I created two object.
But now when the problem will occur problem will occur that I add one child which is now down south
downsizing its capability like it is removing certain capabilities.
Okay.
So that is the problem.
So here if you see that now motorcycle is same, car is same I am adding bicycle.
And in the bicycle.
Bicycle doesn't have engine.
So what I have done is I overriding this has engine method and return start returning null right.
Because this is a boolean object.
So I start returning null now in the client code, if I start adding this object apart from motorcycle
car, and if I added this bicycle, This will throw a null pointer exception y vehicle when the bicycle
come.
Bicycle dot has engine.
Yes it is overrided what it will return null.
You will do null dot two string which is a null pointer exception.
So that's what Liskov principle says, that all the child, all the child classes should be able to
substitute each other without breaking the code.
But now here you have added such child class inside a vehicle, right?
And if you add it, it will your break your code.
Now.
Okay.
What?
Why?
Because see vehicle has engine.
Now bicycle has removed that capability from you.
So it has instead of increasing the capability it has reduced that capability.
And now there is a chance that our client code will break.
Now assume that if there are certain this code like at 100 places.
is right.
So all the places you have to now change put a if else condition.
Okay.
If it is an instance of bicycle, don't call has engine.
If it is an instance of bicycle don't call this okay.
So that is an issue with the Liskov substitution principle.
And that's what it tries to solve how it tries to solve it.
So now I have a vehicle class.
So in the parent class put only very generic method which are common for all.
So in the vehicle what is the generic number of wheels.
Right.
So by default I am returning two.
But I have taken out the very specific let's say has engine or not.
So now has engine.
So I created one more class engine wheels vehicle engine vehicles.
Right.
Which is taking out from vehicle.
Now it has certain methods which are specific to this.
So it has engine and from engine vehicle.
I have created a one car.
One motorcycle.
Okay.
And bicycle I have taken from this vehicle.
Right.
So it doesn't has engine.
So if you see that it is don't worry about that.
Also because it is from the parent class only get number of wheels.
Is there all the generic methods a specific one.
You create another child class and put that one and only create child class out of those which required
those.
So you got it.
Vehicle I have created an engine vehicle and from engine vehicle I have created car and motorcycle.
Those who have engine but bicycle doesn't have engine.
So it just taking from the vehicle.
Now let's see different client codes.
Let's say first.
Now here if you see that I am creating a list of vehicle parent object, this one.
If you are creating this one you can add motorcycle also cycle also bicycle also and you can only call
the method which is available or visible at vehicle.
So you can only call get number of wheels.
So there is no chance that this code will break because bicycle also has this number of wheels, so
this will work.
Now let's say another client code.
Now I am again creating a vehicle added motorcycle car, bicycle.
Now I am trying to access the engine.
Will you be able to access it?
No, you won't be able to access it because vehicle is not aware about has engine method only engine.
Vehicle has aware of this has engine method.
So even if you added bicycle and you are trying to add, you will be only able to access the methods
which all aware of vehicle.
Which vehicle aware of, right?
So you won't be able to access this one so you are safe from this.
So this is a compile time error.
Now let's say another example.
Now I have taken engine.
Vehicle.
List of engine.
Vehicle.
So engine vehicle you can add car.
Because this is an engine vehicle child you can add motorcycle.
This is an engine vehicle.
But can you add bicycle.
No.
Bicycle is the child of vehicle.
So in the engine vehicle object you can add motorcycle.
You can add car.
But see it's a compile time error if you add a bicycle.
So there is even if you call has engine you won't be able to add bicycle itself.
So your code it's a compile time error itself.
Your code will not break when you will run.
So you got it.
How to avoid it now write.
Very simple right?
It's just like using a inheritance properly.
So this is how we avoid Liskov substitution principle.
Okay guys, I hope this should be clear.
Now if you have any question, any doubt let me know.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Strategy Design Pattern (Behavioral Pattern) ---

Back to the channel.
And today we will see strategy design pattern.
So it's a behavioral design pattern.
And we know that behavioral is like more interested in how objects interact or communicate with each
other okay.
And it defines multiple algorithms, encapsulates their logic in dedicated class and enable changing
an algorithms behavior at runtime.
What does that mean?
So understand with this problem and solution.
And when we will read this definition again it will get more clear.
So see this problem.
First I have a class vehicle and it has a default drive capability.
Let's say normal drive capability.
Then I have multiple child class like sports vehicle off road vehicle passenger vehicles.
Or you can have further like goods vehicle.
So many child classes.
Now each child class can have their own drive functionality.
Either they can have the same default or they can change the drive capability what they want.
let's say sport, we can have sport drive capability.
Off road vehicle also has sport drive functionality.
Passenger is reusing the parent one normal drive functionality.
Okay, so one thing, one problem we can easily identify is that that there are so many child classes,
it is possible that there is a code duplication.
So in this case sports vehicle also need sports drive functionality.
Off road also needs sports drive functionality.
Okay.
So this is one problem.
Code duplication is there.
So that is one problem.
Code duplication.
Same sport drive functionality present into many sub classes.
And this is just one example.
So consider that you have 1015 sub classes.
So there is high chance that there is a code duplication.
And the second is tight coupling.
If in future we need to change the drive functionality to say off road vehicle, it is not possible
without updating the class.
Now let's say that today you have a sports functionality for this a sport vehicle.
In future, if you have to change this capability, would you be able to change it?
No.
You have already defined this sports capability here.
Similarly here for passenger vehicle, is it possible for you to change the behavior like once you define
it?
No.
You have to change the code.
So we have tight coupling here also.
So using a strategy pattern we can solve both.
So this is the UML diagram for it okay.
So here if you see the UML diagram we create a strategy.
And then we have a multiple concrete implementation.
So this strategy class or interface is nothing but like the algorithm here in the above problem.
What is the algorithm here.
Like this one.
This drive capability.
So some has normal drive capability.
Some has the sports drive capability like.
So I have created this strategy drive strategy as a separate interface.
and it has one abstract method drive.
Now we have multiple normal drive.
Its post drive.
And even in future if we support more, we can have that also.
And in the normal drive, yes, we have a complete functionality or algorithm for the normal drive capability
in the drive.
In this drive method we have the complete code for the sports drive functionality.
So this part is done.
Okay now we have a context.
So here in this context is our vehicle.
So now in this vehicle if you see that we are accepting the drive strategy dynamically.
So first of all how many different child classes of the vehicle has let's say I have a good vehicle.
I have an off road road vehicle, I have a sports vehicle.
Or let's say we can have more, let's say passenger vehicle.
So we have different child classes of this vehicle.
Now if you see one very important thing is that this child class Is telling what drive strategy they
need.
So when you are creating an object of goods vehicle, you can pass that whatever the drive strategy
you need, whether you want normal drive strategy or sports drive strategy or what.
Okay.
So it's dynamic now.
Okay.
So let's say today goods vehicle has normal drive strategy.
And in future you can change it.
You can when creating an object you can pass a sports drive.
That is also possible.
Similarly for off road, whenever you create an object of off road vehicle we can provide what's the
drive strategy we want whether we want sports drive, normal drive or some something else.
Okay.
And in future we can change it whatever we want and whatever the drive strategy you have, you just
call the drive method and that functionality will work.
So here, if you see the code, I created a new sports vehicle.
I am creating a sports vehicle and while creating an object I pass.
What is the strategy I wanted?
I want sports drive feature, I want this.
Okay, so now I created an object.
And once you have created the object when you call the drive okay.
So this is the default method when you call the drive, whatever the strategy you have chosen that drive
functionality would be invoked.
So here if you see that what we have done is we have separate out the algorithms okay.
And now because of that, it is possible that we can extend the new capability into the drive strategy
okay.
So independently it can scale.
And similarly independently we can scale the vehicles.
Also we can add more vehicles.
And also dynamically we can manage the strategy.
So we have removed the tight coupling.
And also we have removed the code duplication also.
Okay.
So very simple.
And you can say that very important design pattern.
If you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further by.

--- Observer Pattern (Behavioral Pattern) ---

Side.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today we will see Observer Pattern.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So it's a behavioral design pattern where an object which is also known as observable.
Or you can say that publisher maintains a list of dependent say observers.
Okay.
We will get more clear about this term uh, soon.
And the main purpose of it is to automatically notify the dependents observer whenever there is a change
in its state.
In which state in.
Whenever there is a change in the publisher state, it automatically notify all the dependents or observers.
Okay.
So see this diagram.
So here we have an observable.
Some someone call it publisher.
So it has certain state whenever there is a change in state let's say currently it's holding value one.
So you can see that it's a Update in its state, and whenever a state is changed, all the subscribers
or all the dependents who are observing it.
Okay, so it will notify them, hey, there is a change in my state.
This is just a heads up.
Do whatever now you want to do.
Okay, so real life example is weather application where multiple devices receive update from a weather
station.
So here weather station is your publisher.
And multiple devices let's say are the television radio where they are getting the information from
the weather station.
These are subscribers okay.
Or in we can say that this is observable and this is observer's social media feed where we follow someone
on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter.
We become observer of their profile.
When they post new content, we are automatically notified.
So in this case we are observer.
Okay.
And the profile which we are observing is known as observable okay.
So there are different example like subscription service stock market trackers and etc..
So generally there are two models and many engineers get confused like hey why we are using like this.
And because many way in most of the videos only one way is discussed.
Okay?
So many people have different understanding.
Some knows about push, some knows about pull, but both are correct.
We will see that both so push in the push observable.
Or you can say that publisher pushes the data it warned observer to see.
So in this case the publisher is pushing the data to observer okay.
Whatever the data it want observer to see in the pull observer holds observable object reference, so
observer is nothing but a subscriber.
The subscriber holds the publisher object reference, and when it got to know that something updated,
it pulls the data automatically whatever it wants.
So maybe your observable or publisher holds a lot of data.
Okay, so now once the observer or subscriber get to know that something is changed, it already has
the reference of it and it fetch whatever information it required.
So UML for push model.
So in the push model is what publisher or observable pushes the data it want observer to receive.
Okay.
So here let's say I have.
So this is a UML.
I have an observable interface.
Okay.
It exposes different method like add.
You can add observer.
You can remove observer Notify where we will notify each observer and the state, like each publisher
or each observable maintenance state.
So there is some method to update that state also.
Right.
So this is just a abstract method.
So there should be some concrete observable which implement this.
So these are the implementation for that.
Similarly we have observer and there could be many observers okay.
So it has update method.
Now notice one thing that in the push model in the update method we are having certain parameter like
these parameters are the observable data.
Data means in the sense whatever the publisher wanted to send, whatever the publisher wanted to see
the subscribers.
Okay, that data, we need to set it here.
So here in this case I have just created observable data class.
Okay, in that I have, let's say certain data one data two multiple data okay.
If you don't want this object, you can have like okay int data one int data two string data three okay.
But it's more feasible than if we have one class and send the object okay.
Send the reference of that so that we don't have to write individually each fields.
But the crux here is in the push model, my publisher observable is deciding what data I want observer
or subscriber to see.
So that's why in the update we have the observable data.
So understand with this example.
So here I have weather observable which expose certain method like add observer remove observer notify
observer and set weather readings.
Okay, now weather station is implementing this weather observable.
It maintain a list of observers.
So these are weather observers.
Or you can say that subscribers.
And since we are currently doing push model so it in the update method I have provided the data weather
data.
So this is the weather data class I have created like what all data publisher wanted to send.
And these are all subscriber let's say current condition.
Any system which is showing the current.
What is the current weather.
Any system which is using the current information and showing the forecast display.
So generally different different uh system which are currently observing this weather observable okay.
And each one is implementing their update like okay, once they got the update, okay.
And they have the data.
They have their custom logic how they want to use it.
Okay.
So now we have a weather observable which is implemented by weather station.
Weather station maintain a list of observers and also have this observable data.
So this is your observable data.
So now in the constructor I created a empty list of observers.
Currently there are no subscriber or no observers which are observing this observable or publisher.
So first is method is add observer.
So it is adding an implementation of it.
So whenever a add observer is called, whatever the observer is we are adding it into the list.
Remove observer.
Whatever the observer is coming into the parameter we are removing it from the list.
Okay.
Then we have notify observer.
So here we are iterating over the list of this, iterating over the list of this observer.
And for each one we are calling the update method.
And also notice that we are passing the data this observable data because publisher is now deciding
what it wanted to see here, it might have more data.
Also, this is just an example here.
It might have let's say weather data and so many more data.
But let's say it wants subscribers or observer to see only weather data.
So that's why publisher is deciding what subscriber need to see.
Okay.
And we have something called set weather reading.
Like whatever the value it's coming.
Okay.
So this is something you can say that it is used to change the state of an observable.
So I have temperature and humidity.
So whenever any change happen.
So I am creating a new weather data object.
Setting the temperature and humidity.
It's just like updating this field.
Okay, so it's just an example.
You.
Whether you have to create this class or not or you can simply have directly here.
Temperature and humidity here.
And in the update you pass direct temperature and humidity.
Okay.
So this is just an example whether you have to create this class or not.
So I'm creating a class.
And then instead of passing individual parameters I am passing a class object temperature humidity.
So I have the weather data set now.
And now the it's a new temperature and new humidity right.
So that's why I call notify observer.
So now notify observer what it will do.
It will iterate over the list of observer and call the update method.
So each observer what whoever has.
Observing or whichever observer got added into this list, they will get notified.
Their update method will get notified.
Okay, so that is.
Push model and very very straightforward.
Okay.
And see this is the client how they are using it.
So we have a main method.
So now I created an object of weather station okay.
So I created an object of weather station.
And here I am creating the observer.
So this is my publisher.
This is my subscribers.
So I created two subscribers two observer.
Currently they are not observing it.
So now I am adding subscriber to a list of this publisher which is maintaining.
So weather station.
It is maintaining a list right.
Add observer current display weather station add observer forecast display.
So now this list got updated.
Now it holds two observers.
Now I am changing the state of a weather station like set weather reading.
I am passing the temperature and humidity.
And when I pass it, it will set the temperature and humidity to the weather data.
Okay.
And it caused the notify observer.
And when the notify observer called, it calls the update method of all the observer which are added
into the list.
So currently it will call for current display and forecast display.
Similarly we can remove it also weather station remove observer.
We can remove any observer we want.
So this is one way of implementing the observer design pattern which is push model okay.
Now another model which some other follows right.
Both are correct.
So in the pull model this observer holds a reference of this observable.
So it's like they also has a relationship with it.
So it knows about the observable.
So in this case when we are and here if you see the update we don't have any parameter now here because
it don't need it.
Only need that okay.
Something has updated.
So it will call the update.
That's all.
It will not pass any parameter.
Why it will not pass because observer don't need it.
It has the reference of the observable itself.
So whatever the data it required it will fetch it.
So it's a pull model generally.
So consider this example okay.
The same thing whether observable.
And here if you see the same thing no change add remove notify set whether reading no change into that
and into the weather station which implements this one.
So here it maintain a list of observer.
And this is my observable data.
I already told you that creation of a class is not mandatory either.
You can have the observable data maintained here or you can have a class.
So currently I have only two, so I'm maintaining it here itself.
So now I am creating a constructor.
So in the constructor I am initializing this list.
So currently this list is empty.
There is no subscribers okay.
And then we have add observer method exactly like previously.
Remove same notify iterating over the list of observer and calling the update.
So now one change is that here we are not passing any observable data.
We are not passing, we are just calling the update method.
Okay.
We are not passing any observable data.
Then we have set weather, reading, temperature, humidity.
So whatever the new value comes, we will update our observable data and we will notify it like same
as before.
And the notify will iterate over the list of observer and call the update method.
And now here in this case, observer has the update method.
But yes, again there is no parameter.
It accept it has two observer current display and forecast display.
Now only this is that it maintain a list or reference it.
Maintain a reference of the observable.
It maintain a reference of the observable.
So what I am doing is.
So whenever we are creating an object of this observer or subscriber, we will pass a reference of this
observable also.
Okay.
And what I am doing is so this reference got updated.
And also using this reference I will add the observer.
So whatever this observer is I am adding it into this list.
Also this list okay so see this example.
It will get clear.
So I am creating a publisher here.
So my publisher is created.
Okay, so currently it has empty observer.
Now here I am creating two subscribers.
This is subscriber or you can known as observers.
And this is observable.
Okay.
So I am creating first new current condition display.
So this is one observer and I am passing the weather station like because now each observer hold the
reference of the observable.
So I'm passing the weather station.
So once it got passed it update this reference.
So it update this reference here.
And also using this observable object it add it calls the add observer method and add itself.
Now this observer get added into this list.
Similarly the forecast display holds the reference of this weather station, and it will automatically
use this weather station object and calls the Addobserver method and add itself into the list.
Okay, so now we have created the subscriber, and also the subscriber have added themselves into the
list which is maintained by publisher.
Now here we are updating the weather state.
So set weather state.
So let's say new temperature or some new humidity temperature is coming.
So when it comes it updates its weather data and call the notify observer.
The notify observer iterate over list of observers and call the update method.
And when the update method is called.
Now they have this reference weather observable reference.
So from this weather station they can access whatever the data they are interested in.
So this is mostly you can say that pull method.
So here.
Only difference is that the observer also the observer also has a reference of the observable.
That's the only difference.
Okay.
Both are correct based on the requirement of the question.
Okay.
We can decide what we wanted.
Okay.
So when we want observer to have a control to fetch the data, whatever it wants, we can go for this
pull model.
When the publisher or observable need to control that hey I subscriber need to see only these three
fields.
Then we can follow the push model where it will pass the observable data, whatever it want to send
into the update.
Okay it's clear.
But still, if you have any doubt, let me know.
We can discuss further by.

--- Decorator Design Pattern (Structural Design Pattern) ---

This site.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today we are going to do Decorator pattern.
So let's understand the use case first so that it would be clear in what all use cases we might have
to apply decorator pattern.
So in this example if you see this core base object.
So whatever the base object you have for example our base pizza like a margherita pizza.
Right.
So these are the core.
And on top of that base object we can add feature okay.
So now here if you that I have added whatever the object base object I have, I have decorated with
feature one, you have added new feature okay.
So similarly now here if you see in this example the base pizza which is Margherita, you can add another
feature of it like cheese.
You decorated it with cheese okay.
Then again you can repeat it.
Whatever the result which you have got.
Again you can add another feature on top of it, another feature on top of it, and it goes on.
Okay, so it has a stacking feature.
Okay.
Or sometimes also known as layering effect.
Okay.
So the same example let's say you have a base pizza margherita.
You add another feature on top of it.
You added cheese.
And on top of that you added another feature, let's say mushroom.
Okay.
So you have now Margherita pizza.
Then you have added cheese on top of it, then you added mushroom on top of it.
And similarly you have added another feature.
Let's say you have added it another paneer and goes on.
And similarly you can have any combination.
Let's say you have a base pizza.
Now you can first decorate it with mushroom and then you can decorate it with cheese.
And then you can decorate it with, let's say, veggies.
Then you can decorate it with another thing like, uh, paneer, whatever.
So in simple term, whenever you find a use case where you have a layering effect or stacking feature,
okay, that base object, then you have feature one plus feature two plus feature three.
Likewise, then you should know that it's a hint for applying the decorator pattern.
Okay, now let's say that we you able to identify that yes, it's a stacking feature like on an object.
First I have to apply feature one.
And then whatever the feature one I have got object one.
With feature one I have to apply feature two.
And then after that, whatever the feature one, feature two, I have to apply another feature and goes
on.
Now you have to implement it, you have to code it.
But let's say you have to do it without decorator pattern.
So how you will do it?
So we will generally do like this.
We will create one class Margarita which is our let's say base class.
Okay Margarita.
Then you will probably write all possible combination okay.
So one pizza could be margarita plus cheese.
This is one pizza combination.
One pizza could be margarita plus paneer plus mushroom margarita plus cheese plus mushroom margarita.
Plus mushroom margarita plus paneer.
So this is like all possible combination.
And also in future one more you can say that feature added.
Okay let's say veggie then you have all possible combination right.
Margarita plus paneer plus mushroom plus veggie.
Another margarita plus cheese plus veggie margarita plus veggie itself.
Margarita plus paneer plus veggie.
Okay.
so you just assume just by adding a one feature, you have to create all possible combinations for that.
Okay.
So this is actually called class explosion.
Okay.
If we try to design such problem without decorator pattern we would be end up in creating so many classes.
All possible combination which led to class explosion.
And that's where decorator pattern comes into the picture.
Decorator pattern allow you to add new functionality, new functionality to an object dynamically without
altering the original structure.
Okay, we will see that.
How?
So now here if you see in the decorator pattern.
So this is considered that in this UML if you see we have a base pizza like so we have created one interface
based pizza.
Now there can be many base pizzas like Margherita is one, plain pizza is one, farmhouse can be one.
Veggie delight could be one.
Okay, so if there is more, we can simply add new base pizza.
So this base pizza is nothing but our this core.
Okay.
And here, if you see that now we have separated out the toppings and we call it topping decorator.
So all the decorators.
So generally we decorate our base pizza with something so that be taken out separately.
So our whatever the base pizza we can decorate it with cheese mushroom paneer.
So these are now my decorators okay.
So I taken out separately.
So this topping decorator is let's say it's an abstract class okay.
And then here if you see I have all the decorators here.
Cheese mushroom paneer.
And let's say if in future one more comes, let's say veggie.
I added that also.
Okay, so this thing is clear.
So we have this relation clear that all Margarita is a base pizza farmhouse is a base pizza.
So these are our base pizza.
Similarly cheese is a decorator, mushroom is a decorator and paneer is a decorator.
Okay so we have done this one.
Now here if you see from this diagram let's say you have your base pizza and after that you have decorated
with a cheese.
The result is again a pizza only.
Okay.
So that the same pizza now you can decorate it with another let's say mushroom.
That is again a pizza only.
Okay.
So here if you see no matter you are decorating the base pizza with something, some feature it remain
a pizza only.
So that's why whatever the topping decorator is.
Also, I made a child of base pizza.
So topping decorator is a pizza itself, right?
And also one more thing is this topping decorator has base pizza object.
Okay.
We will now see with an example it would be more clear.
So first I am implementing this base pizza.
So now here if you see base pizza is an interface and added two methods.
One is description, another is cost.
Okay in.
Maybe you can have more functions depending upon the question which uh interviewer might give you.
But this is just an example.
So I have two thing description and cost okay.
So now here if you see we have multiple base pizzas which are concrete classes.
So here if you see I have one plane plain pizza which implement this pizza.
I have farmhouse which implement this pizza.
So description is just simply it is returning it as a plain pizza.
It is a farmhouse pizza.
Nothing else.
And the cost is how much does it cost?
200.
₹300 let's say.
So we have implemented this part very very simple.
Now let's add topping decorator.
So I have created an abstract class.
Topping decorator implements the base pizza.
So now this part.
It is a base pizza itself.
Okay.
Now here if you see I also have base pizza object here.
So it has base pizza also that also we have added it has base pizza.
And here I have a decorator like where this decorator is like the pizza it accept.
So here if you see this example you have a base pizza.
After that you have a cheese.
Now when you add a new feature, you have to pass this base pizza plus cheese.
This one you have to pass, right?
So you have it accept an object of a pizza itself.
So that's why it's constructor.
Accept a pizza so that it can add this feature on top of it.
Okay.
So now here if you see what are the different toppings we have cheese mushroom.
And in future you can have more.
Now see this cheese is a topping decorator.
Mushroom is a topping decorator.
Okay.
Now here in the cheese constructor it just calls like the super parent constructor constructor itself
and pass the pizza.
Okay, the same thing.
Now no difference is that.
Now No.
This topic decorator is also a child of base, and the base pizza has this too.
You can say that abstract method so it can also implement this one.
Okay.
It provides the implementation for this one.
And here if you say what is this get description.
Get description, it says that whatever the earlier description was says now it says extra cheese.
Just it added something.
Similarly the cost the cost earlier it was whatever the cost of the pizza, earlier it was.
So now let's say that base pizza it cost was 200.
Let's say plain pizza cost was 200.
Now you are trying to decorate it with cheese.
Okay, so when you are creating an object for cheese you pass this object base pizza.
So we pass this object base pizza okay.
And now we are implementing it cost that whatever the base pizza cost was, which was 200 plus 20.
So this is the additional feature I have added.
Okay.
Now let's say that you want to decorate it with mushroom.
So now here if you see that.
So you have to for decorating with mushroom you have to pass this object.
You have to pass this object here to the mushroom here okay.
And then you have to provide uh the override method for this one.
So you have get description.
You have like just append whatever you wanted okay.
And then here if you see the cost, whatever the cost earlier it was okay.
Pizza plus pizza dot get cost.
So what is the pizza cost now.
So this is coming as an input to right.
Right.
So it's cost is 200 plus 20.
So it's 220.
So it will do 220 plus additional 40 mushroom charges.
Okay.
So likewise it goes.
So advantage is that here.
If in future a new topic is added you don't need all permutation combination.
You just need to add it here and that's all.
Okay.
So here if you see how it is easy to implement.
So first let's say I create a plain pizza.
So I create a base pizza.
And this I created an object simple plain pizza object.
Okay.
So its description and its cost.
So its cost is 200 okay.
Pizza one.
Now here if you see now I'm adding a topping on top of this plain pizza on top of this plain pizza.
So I'm creating a new cheese topping.
And I told you that this cheese topping is again is a child of topping decorator, which is which is
again a child of base pizza.
so that's why it is again a pizza only base piece only.
So I am creating a new object of new cheese topping.
And while creating an object I pass the pizza.
So what pizza?
I am passing pizza one okay or not pizza one.
So let's say new plain pizza.
I'm creating a new object itself.
New plain pizza.
Okay, so on top of new plain pizza I am decorating with cheese topping.
Okay, so now here if I use the System.out.println pizza two dot get cost what it would be plain pizza.
Whichever was the pizza get cost is 200.
I am adding 20 so it will print 220 here.
Okay.
Similarly you can play around with it like let's say if you are creating a new base pizza like let's
say farmhouse.
So new farmhouse.
So let's say it's again a pizza.
So one pizza is created okay.
Simple okay.
And even you can decorate more like this.
You are creating a new mushroom topic.
Okay, so I am creating a new.
So let's say go from inside.
So here you have let's say farmhouse.
You want to decorate it with cheese and then you want to decorate it with mushroom.
So go from bottom inside to outside.
Okay.
So here I have first created a farm object.
Okay.
Which is farm object is inside.
What.
This cheese.
So here I am creating new cheese topping.
And this farm is inside this cheese topping.
Okay.
Now this cheese topping is inside the mushroom.
So I'm creating new mushroom.
And this cheese is inside this mushroom.
So here if you see that it is kind of this stacking behavior.
You can say that it shows this stacking behavior or layering behavior.
Okay.
So now what's the cost?
It would be so farmhouse was 200.
So when the new cheese topping.
So now here if you see that the pizza for is for new mushroom right.
So now when you call pizza for dot get cost.
So you have a mushroom.
Mushroom class.
So it has a cost method.
Okay.
So what does cost method is pizza dot get cost plus 40.
So pizza dot get cost plus 40.
Now this pizza dot get cost.
So what is this pizza.
New cheese topping.
So it's a cheese topping.
Okay.
So it will call it's get cost method.
Now cheese topping.
Get cost method.
It will call.
So it again it is a pizza dot.
get cost plus 20.
Okay.
Now what?
This pizza here is new farmhouse.
Okay, so it will cost the farmhouse one get cost method.
So it simply returned 200.
So this will return 200.
So ultimately the price would be here 220.
And here it would be 220 plus 40 which is 260.
So output would be this one okay.
So got it.
So this is a decorator pattern.
And the very easiest way to understand that if an interviewer give you a use case where we can apply
is just see if we have certain use case where on top of base object you have to add feature feature
one.
And then on top of that you have to add another feature.
Then on top of that you have to add another feature.
Likewise okay.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Factory & Abstract Factory pattern (Creational Design Pattern) ---

Share on this site.
Welcome back.
And today in low level design we are going to cover factory pattern and abstract factory pattern.
Okay so let's understand the problem first.
So let's say that this is our product shape.
It's an interface.
And we have multiple child classes like circle square right.
So circle is a shape a square is a shape.
And we have multiple classes in our project class A, class B, class C, class D, class C.
And they are using this product.
So they are creating a new object.
Okay.
So let's say class A is creating new circle.
Class B is creating new square.
So like this the object creation is used.
Or you can say that it is spread across our whole repository.
Okay.
So the problem with this is that in future let's say the instance Stan's creation.
Logic for circle is change.
Say we need to pass now.
New circle and the radius.
We need to pass the radius.
New circle and you have to pass the radius.
Now all the classes which is doing new circle.
New circle right everywhere we have to make a change.
So this is becoming too complex and difficult to manage.
So that's where our factory pattern comes into the picture which is the creational design pattern.
And it controls the creation of an object like so it used when we want to encapsulate object creation
and related creation logic at one place.
So if we want to control the object creation and we want to hold it, encapsulate it only at one place,
that's where the factory pattern comes into the picture.
So many times when we are learning, we get confused because there are two flavors of it simple factory
pattern and factory method pattern.
This is something which is there in the books, okay, and simple factory pattern is something which
is you might see in industry.
So when you are working in an in your company, if you see the code, you will see that many people
or many engineers are following simple factory pattern.
But if you read the books you will see factory method pattern.
So it creates contradiction like which one is right?
Which one is wrong.
So generally both are right.
But I would say that this is in the books, which is factory method pattern.
But this is also not wrong.
It's a highly used simple factory pattern is also used a lot in industry, but it is nowhere like uh,
official.
Okay, so let's first see simple factory pattern.
So we have our product shape and it has certain method.
And we have our child class like circle which is a shape.
Square is a shape.
So it's a child class of shape.
So circle is just providing an implementation for these abstract method.
Very simple.
Nothing special in this.
So only thing is like we have a parent and we have a child.
So this is let's say our product.
Okay.
Now in the simple factory we have one class factory class shape factory.
In the shape factory we create one method which is static.
Okay.
So so that it can be invoked with the class itself.
Because at this point of time, we haven't created any object and we want an object of a particular
shape.
So we have created a shape factory inside that we have create shape method, which is static so that
it can be invoked through a class itself.
Now if you see inside it, it has certain if else if condition, if whatever the shape type you wanted,
it could be a string or let's say here.
In this case it's an enum circle square.
But let's say if it is a string also.
So if shape type which you want is circle, then it returns a new circle object.
If the shape type which you wanted is square, then it will return a new square object.
So now everywhere, whatever the code, let's say class A, so now it will not do new circle directly.
It will invoke this factory like this.
It will invoke the factory shape.
Factory dot create shape.
Hey, give me an object of circle and it will give you an instance.
So now the logic of.
or creation of an object holds only at one place in future.
Any change is happening only happened at one place.
We don't have to touch different classes in a repo.
But there is one disadvantage.
Disadvantage is that it violates open closed principle.
If any new shape is introduced, then we have to touch this factory class.
Yeah.
So let's say that rectangle class is introduced.
So here in this case we have a new rectangle class.
New rectangle class.
So we have to update this factory method also.
So inside this we already have circle.
We already have a square.
Now we have to put else if if the shape if you want it is rectangle.
Create an object of rectangle.
So it violates open closed principle that whenever any new shape is introduced this method will also
need to be changed.
Okay.
Another thing is that this factory class can become bloated over time.
Say, if object creation logic is complex, it is not simple as new circle.
It is complex.
Say in this example, if shape type equals to equals to circle, this is just for example.
So I am just loading a configuration.
I am validating the configuration.
I am initializing some resources in db.
Let's say something something and then creating a circle object.
Just assume that it's a lot of complex process to create an object.
So what would happen is your this class become bloated very difficult to manage okay.
And also it violates single responsibility principle.
Why?
Because now this class is doing two things.
First is selection okay.
Based on the shape type it need to select okay.
Whether I have to create a circle object or a square object.
After that, it also has construction logic.
All the logics present inside it is also controlled or managed by it.
So in future if rectangle comes again this class change, or if construction logic change, let's say
now you don't need to validate.
Then again this class change.
So it is doing two things now.
So it's also valid single responsibility principle.
So this simple factory pattern is used when your use case is very simple.
Okay.
And that's where next is factory method pattern comes into the picture.
So understand this factory method pattern is that we have a shape circle square.
This is our product.
No nothing different in that.
Okay.
Now we have an equivalent factory.
So we have a shape factory.
And it has a method let's say create shape and it returns the shape object.
This object it returns the object.
Now this shape factory has a child class.
Let's say whatever the child class here, we have a product circle.
So we have a circle factory square a square factory.
So you can say that we have one factory for one product.
One factory for one product okay.
And this creates shape.
So in the create shape it we we can have the logic of creation of a circle instance in square factory
create shape method.
It.
We can have a logic to create an object of square instance okay.
So this is the first part.
And then we have shape factory method.
Now let's say here we have if else condition.
So if shape type if the shape type you want is circle you want circle factory.
So it will return an object of circle factory okay.
And using that circle factory you can call create shape.
And it will give you a circle object.
Else if shape type equals to equals to square, we need to return the square factory.
So it will return a square factory.
And this code can be keep outside of the else because it is same.
Then you can call create shape and you get a square object.
You understood that.
So this is factory method pattern where for each product we have a respective factory.
And that takes care of creation of an object.
Now here if you see that advantage is same so how we will invoke it.
So shape factory method this this class.
This is also a static dot get shape instance get shape instance whatever you want circle.
So it will go like okay you want circle.
So it will first create a circle factory.
And from the circle factory it calls Create shape which returns you the circle shape.
So one thing is the same advantage what we have for simple Factory, that the instance creation logic
is there within this factory methods.
So let's say that in future any change in the logic of initiation of an object of a circle.
Only circle factory is impacted if in change in the square only square factory logic get impacted.
Also another thing is it solves the bloating issue and it also solves single responsibility violation.
How?
Because now we have different factory for each objects like circle.
Square.
So all the complex let's say that there are two complex a process to create an object of a circle.
So it will reside under Circle Factory.
Whatever the different object creation process of a square factory, it will reside under square Factory.
Okay.
So creation logic we have taken out.
So now here if you see that shape factory create shape within this create shape of the circle factory.
It has its own logic.
How to create an object.
Similarly for Square Factory it might have a different logic to create an complex object.
But the thing is, we have taken out the object creation logic from the selection.
So now we are selection is doing outside.
So this is selection process.
So in the simple factory what we have is selection and your object creation both is happening.
But in the factory method we have object creation.
We have taken out separately.
But the selection here we have Okay.
Disadvantages is still there is a violation of open closed principle where in the selection in the selection
process.
So now let's say that in future you have added rectangle factory.
Okay.
So you have a rectangle shape.
You already have a circle.
You already have a square.
And now you also have rectangle.
Similarly we have shape factory.
Earlier you have circle factory square factory.
Now you have added rectangle factory.
Okay so here it is.
Follow the open closed principle because new we are able to add rectangle properly without touching
this.
Similarly, in the shape factory where we are creating an instance, the object creation logic is now
following the OCP of open closed principle properly, but the selection process is still following are
Uh, violating the open closed principle.
So if shape equals to equals to circle, it need to create a circle factory.
If shape equals to equals to square it need to have a square factory.
So we have to add it here.
If shape equals to equals to rectangle we have to return the rectangle factory.
So there is still a open closed principle violation.
It is not resolved fully.
So it's not a full proof.
Okay.
But only thing is it resolves single responsibility principle.
So earlier we have selection plus creation together.
But now in the uh this is in the simple factory pattern and the factory method pattern, we have different
creation logic and different selection logic.
Okay.
So this solves the single responsibility principle, but still there is a violation of open closed principle.
I told you where in the selection process.
So both is clear.
Now let's move to Abstract Factory.
So again, confusion comes because Abstract Factory can be now built on Simple factory and can be built
on factory method pattern.
Okay.
And in industry you might see in both.
So and I'm not saying both are wrong.
It's just depend like which one is fulfilling your use case.
So abstract factory you can say that it is nothing but a factory of factories.
So I am currently telling you which is built on simple factory, abstract factory which is built on
simple factory where each subfactor is itself a simple factory.
So consider this simple example product.
So I have a let's say car exterior and car interior okay.
So two products.
So this is product one.
Product two.
So car interior economy car interior luxury car interior.
So those are child of this one.
Similarly, car exterior also has two child.
Economy exterior.
Luxury interior and they have certain methods.
Now in the simple factory we have individual factory for both.
So we have let's say car interior factory, interior factory.
We have one method get interior, which is static and based on the type we are deciding if type is equals
economy we are returning economy interior object.
If type is equal luxury we are returning luxury interior object.
Similarly we have one factory.
For exterior factory the same.
We have a get exterior method which is static and based on type.
We are deciding which object to return if type is equal economy we are returning economy exterior.
If type is luxury we are returning luxury exterior.
Very simple.
Factory method Okay.
Now the third step is abstract factory.
Factory of simple factories.
So here we.
On top of it we have added one producer.
Okay.
So it has a method get factory and give it a choice.
So if choice is equals interior now it will return me this factory.
Interior factory.
If choice is equal exterior it will give me the exterior factory.
And once you got the factory, you can now get an specific object like this.
So first I am using Car Producer factory to get a factory of interior.
Once I got Interior factory, I am calling it to get a specific.
So I am calling get Interior Luxury so it will give me luxury interior object Okay.
And using that I call the method.
So it's a factory of factory.
So we have two individual simple factory.
And we have a abstract factory which returns the factory object itself.
Okay.
So this is like built on simple factory.
Now we have something called Abstract factory which is built on factory method.
But here this is from the book size.
So you will find in books this one.
But maybe in industry you might see if you are using Abstract Factory you might see this also.
Okay so it's not like that one is wrong.
So now abstract method abstract factory which is built on factory method.
So here this is important that here we have multiple factories.
Each factory produce a complete family of products that work together.
So that's why I took this example.
So car interior, car exterior.
You can say that it is a part of one product.
Okay.
So this is product one.
Product two.
You can say that both are part of one product and they should work together.
Okay.
So whenever there are scenarios then only we have to go with the abstract factory.
So one thing is that whenever we have different products, different products which are related and
need to be worked together, and based on that scenarios, we have to pick a object of either this or
this.
So that's where the abstract factory comes into the picture.
So in the abstract factory which is built on factory method.
It says that we have a multiple factories.
Each factory produces a complete family of product, complete family of product.
Okay, so understand this with an example.
And then we will come to this line again.
So here we have first product families car interior car exterior no change.
Like previously we have economy interior luxury interior.
And similarly for car exterior we have economy exterior luxury exterior.
Now we have one interface abstract factory interface.
So if you remember the factory method factory method pattern.
There we have let's say car interior.
So it would have one car interior factory and then it would have one method for economy interior factory.
Then it will have one luxury interior factory.
Similarly, we will have one factory for car exterior factory, car exterior factory.
And then we have individual individual factory for economy exterior factory, luxury exterior factory.
Okay.
So this is how factory method pattern does.
But in the abstract factory it combine it group the related products.
How?
Now here, if you see the car factory.
I have car, not car interior.
Not car exterior factory I have car factory.
Now this car can be categorized into economy and luxury.
So that's why I have two child economy car factory.
Luxury car factory okay.
And here I have two.
Abstract method.
Create interior.
Create exterior.
So in the economy car factory child class we have create interior, create exterior.
So create interior will create an object of economy interior and create exterior will create an object
of economy exterior.
So here you will see that we are creating an object of multiple products within one factory.
Within one factory we are creating an object of multiple products which work together.
Similarly, we have luxury car factory inside the luxury luxury car factory we have we have to provide
an implementation of create interior, create exterior.
So create interior luxury interior.
So this one and luxury exterior in the create exterior one okay.
So it's not economy.
It's luxury because it's a luxury car factory okay.
So what this line says that we have multiple factories.
Yes we have one economic car factory.
We have luxury luxury car factory.
Each factory produces a complete family of products that work together.
So it creates an object of interior, it creates an object of exterior.
It might be have different different projects.
It takes care of creating an object for those also.
So earlier in the factory method, each factory is only responsible for creating an object of one product
1 to 1.
But in the abstract factory which is using factory method, here we are grouping the related products
into one factory.
Okay, and this is just one default method which I have added just for use usage of it that uh produce
complete vehicle.
So it will have first create interior exterior and then it will add components there method.
It will invoke it.
So this is just a usage of it.
So now we have a factory provider like how we used to have in a factory method the selection process.
The selection process.
So based on the card type.
So okay you want economy.
So I will create an economy car factory this one.
So if you want a premium or luxury I will create a luxury car factory.
This one.
So this is exactly same as what a factory method pattern used to do.
Selection process.
No difference in that okay.
And then we will use it here like this.
So only difference is here.
This is important part in the abstract.
Abstract factory which is using the factory method pattern.
In the factory method pattern we used to have.
Again I am saying we used to have a factory of a particular individual products.
Okay.
But here in the abstract factory we group related products together.
So I have group in the economy class, economy car factory.
Now all the products which is required to work to make this economy car.
I have it.
Got it.
So nothing is wrong.
Both are right.
And it just depend like what's your use case?
Okay.
So if you have very, very simple use case, very, very simple scenarios, you will see that in industry
many engineers use the simple factory patterns.
Okay.
But if you have if you want to use like uh, if you have very complex you can say that creation logic,
I would say that then you can go for factory method pattern.
Okay.
If you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further into the comment section by.

--- Design Parking Lot (English Dubbed) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Design Tic-Tac-Toe Game ---

They said welcome back.
And today we are going to do low level design of tic tac toe.
If you are experienced or fresher, this is the most simplest level which we can get in an interview.
Okay, so let's start without wasting any time.
So let's understand about the game and its rules.
So tic tac toe we all we have played a lot right.
So it's a generally a three by three.
We have a matrix and it's a two player game.
And one player.
We assign a symbol let's say cross and another we have assign let's say circle.
So in this one the we each player takes a turn one by one and places their symbol onto this grid three
by three grid.
And the winner is whichever player got their symbol either on a full row or column or diagonal.
Okay, so that's what I have written here.
It's a simple two player paper and pencil game.
We have all played it.
Each player select a piece before the game player takes turn, placing it on the three by three grid.
A player wins by placing three of its pieces in a row, column, or diagonals.
Okay, and the game ends when a player wins or when all the grid cells are filled.
So when all the grid cells are filled, it is generally a tie or draw.
Okay, so very simple game.
I think we are all in line like how we generally play this game.
Okay, so what are the objects involved by understanding this flow.
What about the game which we have understood.
So the first object we can think of is a playing piece right.
So we have this right x o.
Let's say in future we can give more option that you can play with this symbol or this symbol Or more.
Okay.
And we can discuss with the interviewer that whether each symbol can have their own behavior or not.
Like different colors.
Right.
Different behavior.
Okay.
Rendering logic.
Different rendering logic.
So depending on that, we can either have a playing piece as an object.
Or we can also have an enum.
Okay.
Let's say interviewer say that yes.
Make it extensible so that we should be able to support more different types different piece type.
Let's say dollar triangle more different piece type.
Also they can have different behavior also like color.
In that case this could be one object.
Another object we can see is this board.
Okay.
And we should be make it extensible that today we can play it with three by three let's say.
if interviewers say that, yes, we can also extend it, let's say 4x4.
So that's why our board should be extensible.
So we have one more object called board.
And the third object which we can see from this flow is our player.
Okay.
So we have the third object player.
So with this flow we can easily identify these three objects which are involved in this game.
Let's go one by one in the construction of the UML diagram.
And in parallelly we will also see the code of it so that it becomes super clear.
The first is the playing piece.
I already told you that if interviewer says that no, let's keep it very simple.
Only, uh, there is no future requirement of different color, different, uh, rendering logic, anything.
Then we can simply have an enum.
We don't need this playing piece object itself, But we making it extensible.
I am creating a playing piece object here and I have multiple child classes like one is X, another
is O.
In future we can have, let's say one for dollar.
This only makes sense when each one of it can have different behavior.
Okay, so I have a playing piece let's say abstract class.
And here I have a piece type.
So piece X will fill it up with this x piece type is x.
Playing piece O will fill it.
This piece type with O.
Similarly dollar will fill it with dollar.
And if interviewer says that yes, in future they can have different behavior like color, then this
structure makes sense.
Parent child.
Okay, so that each one can have their own behavior like different color, different rendering logic.
What?
Interviewer says again, no, let it just symbol okay then even the enum is sufficient.
So you got it when we just want only enum.
And when this parent child relationship is important.
When each piece can have their own behavior then this hierarchy parent child hierarchy is very important.
Okay.
So here if you see I have a playing piece class and here I have a piece type okay.
And from this constructor this piece type I am just assigning.
So there are currently two child classes.
One is x and another is O.
So in the x one whenever we will create an object of it.
So it will just assign its piece type what is its x.
Similarly the circle one or oh one.
Whenever we will create an object of this playing piece.
Oh, it will assign its symbol, which is this one.
Oh, okay.
So this is clear.
So we have created the first object.
Now let's create a board okay.
So what is board is.
So here in this board we have a n by n matrix okay.
So first we needed size.
So board needs size so that we can specify the board whether you want three by 3 or 4 by four etc..
Okay.
So that's why I have a board class where I have first defined size.
Which board the board size which you want.
Okay.
Now once we have defined the size which we want.
Now see this board is nothing but a 2D matrix.
Right.
And what are the value of this 2D matrix is nothing but a playing piece here.
We will gonna have this playing piece Peace cross.
Oh okay.
So this is an 2D matrix of what playing piece.
Okay.
So that's why I have a playing piece 2D matrix.
So that's why the board has a relationship with playing piece.
Also if you see that we can have multiple methods which we can add, one important method is add piece.
So whenever a board support board understand this matrix okay.
Nobody else understand this matrix.
So whenever any player need to put any piece, let's say I want to put a piece x at one comma one.
So it will pass this to this method at piece and board will add it here Okay.
So both understand this matrix.
And whichever want to add a piece onto this matrix they will invoke this method.
Add piece method.
Okay.
So this one is important.
So this is very very simplistic board we have.
So we have uh size.
And we whatever the size IT user will provide us, we will create a matrix for that one.
And that matrix can hold playing piece object.
Okay.
Let's see that.
So board here.
So size and the playing piece.
So whenever the board we will create in the constructor we will give the size okay.
And with that size whatever it is given we will create a board with that one new playing piece.
And for that size 2D matrix size we will create initialize this board.
Okay.
And this add piece.
Okay.
So in the add piece method this is very simple method like I am getting row column and the playing piece
which I want to the piece which I want to store it at the row and column.
So I am simply checking if on a board, if row and column is not equals to null means there is.
Let's say you have a playing piece.
Oh, and you want to store it at one comma one and already piece x is already there.
So currently it's not null means some piece is already present.
You can't, uh, save this.
You can't put another piece on top of it.
So that's why I'm returning.
False.
But if there is a space, I am initializing it.
Let's say you have given zero comma one.
So means at zero comma one.
No, no other pieces there.
So at this row and column of a board, we are restoring this piece.
Okay.
And returning the true.
Yes.
I am able to add the piece properly.
If not, you are returning false.
You are not able to add the piece.
Okay.
Very simple method.
So our board is also done.
Now the third object which we have think of as player.
So player is have two properties.
Generally a name.
What is the name of the player.
That's all we wanted.
And also when we create a player we want it to choose one symbol.
So that's why we it the player also has playing piece whether it is playing with either X or O or we
can have different.
Right.
So whatever the piece which player is choosing we are assigning.
We are attaching this with the player.
So player also has playing piece.
Okay, so here I am creating a player.
Player has only two things.
Name.
So whenever we create a player we will give it a name of a player and also the piece which it is playing
with.
Okay.
So player is also done.
So here this is also done.
Now we all the objects which we have think of is done.
Now all we want is orchestrator.
So that is our tic tac toe game class okay so here if you see that.
We can multiple player play with this game.
Right.
So two players can play with this game.
So that's where I am using currently DK okay.
So with this DK let's say either you can also have let's just say this game is very specific for two
players right.
You can have player A and player B two variables.
Or generally I feel comfortable with this DK.
Let's say player one, player two.
And whenever player one takes its turn, I will remove it from the start and put it at the back.
So with the DK, you can easily remove from the front and put it at the back once its turn is over so
that, uh, they can keep on alternatively playing the game.
Okay.
And it's a collection so we can add two players into it.
Okay.
So we can have a list of player.
And also for the game we also have a board.
So tic tac toe game has list of player.
So it has a relationship with the player.
Also it has a board.
So that's all you wanted.
Okay.
And with this two we can start the game and tic tac toe game I am adding these two methods initialize
game and start game.
So here, if you see in the tic tac toe game, I have a DK of a player.
So where in which I will put two players and I.
All I need is board.
If these two things I can initialize and start the game.
So let's first see.
Now let me start the game.
Then I will show you the complete flow.
Okay, so let me run the code first.
So I'm running it.
So this is the tic tac toe game.
So player one please enter row comma column.
So let's say player one is putting into one.
Here one comma one.
So at one comma one player one symbol is entered.
Player two please enter row and column.
Let's say it put zero comma zero.
Okay.
Again player one let's say it put uh row Rogue column.
Right?
So it put row one.
Zero column.
So it also came player two.
Let's say it want to run at it.
Want to run at two comma zero.
Okay.
Now player one can easily win by putting it the symbol at here.
So it won.
It is keeping it at row one.
Second game winner is player one okay.
So this is a very simple game.
Again there could be a lot of validation we want to add.
We can easily add the validation okay.
That is a business logic.
There might be many validation is missing into this code.
We can add it but the main focus is on the design okay.
So with this we can easily create the game.
Now here if you see the first thing I am creating a game from the main class.
Let's say I'm creating a game.
Tic tac toe game equals to new tic tac toe game.
So I am creating an object of this.
Okay, once I got an object of this, what I am doing is first initializing the game.
So I am invoking this initialize game method.
Now in the initialize, what I am doing is I am first creating piece x and piece o.
So I created two piece.
I created one piece x and one piece o.
So this two is created first.
Then I created a new player player one and assign it the cross piece.
So this one I assigned it to player one and I created a new player.
Give it a name player two and assign it a circle piece.
Okay, so two players I have created and added it to the list.
And you know that linked list is an implementation of dequeue.
So I can remove it from the front and also put it at the end.
So these are my two players.
And these two players are into my P1 and P2.
First I put player one and then player two.
And also I created a game new board three.
So what it will do is it will create a playing piece three by three.
So it created a board of three by three.
So this initialization is happened.
Okay.
After that from main what I am calling is game dot start game.
So whatever the tic tac toe object I had right from that.
Now I am working start game.
Now when I am starting the game.
So see what is happening.
I am iterating till I don't see any winner.
So you can say that this is mostly an orchestrator class.
Okay.
And start game is also kind of orchestrating the complete game.
So I am iterating.
I am continuing this game till I don't see any winner.
So currently no winner is true means there is no winner.
So let's play the game.
Okay.
So first thing first, remove the player whose turn is and also put the player in the list back.
So first thing I'm doing is from the list I remove the first player.
So this I'm removing the first player.
Hey P1 your turn.
So I'm removing you from the front okay.
Get the free space from the board.
So here see this is just my logic.
You can have a different logic to determine whether are there any free space or not okay, so for now
currently I am I added one method into the board here.
Free space check there I'm just checking.
Is there any space left to put the piece or not?
If no means this is already a tie means there is no space.
This player cannot put a piece anywhere because all filled up.
So that's what.
So I'm checking get free cell.
So here I'm just checking iterating all cell one by one.
I'm checking if there any cell left in the board okay.
So this is just to determine if yes if there is any empty then I will proceed it.
If there is no empty space I am saying no winner equals to false.
I'm just terminating this while condition and ultimately return tie.
But now let's say that free space is there.
Yeah.
So let's free spaces there.
This is currently we have just started the game.
So yeah there is a free space.
So it will go here.
Now it will read the user input here.
Player one.
So what is the current player?
This is our current player right?
This is our current player.
We have removed it right.
This one please enter row and column.
So it put let's say one comma one.
So.
So we have read it.
We have put input row and input column what the user current player has entered.
Now we are calling the add piece.
We are calling this method here at this row.
And at this column add the piece.
So let's say it has given one comma one.
So I already showed you this method.
If there is already a piece on that row and column which current user has selected, it will return
false.
Otherwise it will add it and return true.
So currently there is no piece, so it will add the playing piece into it.
Okay.
It's a valid move.
Yes, it's a valid move.
We have all added that piece and returned.
True.
But if there is already a piece so it will return false.
And it will.
We will ask.
Hey!
Incorrect position chosen.
Try again and we again put the player into the first.
Let's say there is already X on it.
And now this player one choose.
Hey again, put on one comma one.
So would you be able to put it.
No.
There is already a piece present here.
So at peace will return false.
And we will ask that incorrect position.
And we again add the player one back into the front.
So we removed it right.
We again added so that in the next while loop run it.
We will ask again.
Player one.
Pick the next row and column.
Okay.
Now let's say that yes, currently we have started first.
So yeah there was a valid move.
So we have added a proper playing piece into one comma one.
And since it's a valid move, we add the player at last.
So now player one we have added at last.
Okay, now after that I am checking for winner.
So in checking for winner, what I am doing is I am just checking the row, checking the column, checking
diagonally and nt diagonally.
Okay, so whatever the row and column user has chosen.
So I am checking this row checking this column.
Checking this diagonals okay.
If let's say row this row this row has all x symbol x symbol x or not, then this column has all symbol
x or x or not.
Okay.
So that's what I am just checking I'm checking the row one by one I one, I am checking each row that
it is matching with the piece type current user piece type x or not.
Okay, if it is not, I am returning row match equals to false.
Okay means currently it's not a winner okay, but any either row, column, diagonal or antidiagonal.
If any of them is all true, then we can return true itself.
Yes, it's a winner, any one of them.
That's why I'm using or any one of them has all the symbols of this player.
Then we will return true.
Okay, so currently it's a winner.
No, currently it's only put at here, so it's not a winner.
So what would happen is.
The while loop continues.
So currently there is no winner.
Now player dot remove first.
So now who is at the first player two.
So it will remove it.
So this will become our current player.
So we are just printing the board.
And after that we are getting a free cell if there is any free cell available.
Yes we are continuing the game.
Otherwise we will stop the game.
Yes there are free cell available.
So we are asking hey player two, enter row and column.
Let's say player two says that zero comma one.
So it will put what it will do.
It will read it okay.
And then it will try to add the piece calling the board.
So from this game we are calling the board at piece okay.
At zero comma one there is no piece already added.
So it will add it and return true.
And yes it's a valid move it.
Since it's a valid move, we will accept that move and put the player at end.
So player two now come at end also.
Now I'm checking Is it now a winner?
So after he has put a valid move, can it become a winner?
So I will check its row, its column and if diagonally required.
Okay.
So if it is not a winner again continue.
And this game goes on okay.
Now I think you got it right.
So this is very simple.
Like that's all this class act as an orchestrator.
This class act as an orchestrator okay.
And this start game has all the logic like how this game should behave and how this objects need to
be used together.
Okay.
Very simple game.
Uh, I have already pushed to the grid.
You can check it out for the code.
Yes, there could be some validations.
We can add more that hey, what if the user has selected five comma five, but our matrix is three comma
three?
We can add certain business logic that hey invalid move.
Okay.
So again I'm saying there could be a validation missing.
But that's not our core intention to have a proper business logic here.
Our core intention is to come up with all the classes, objects, their relationship, so that we can
have a working extensible this game.
Okay, I hope it is clear.
Try to practice it with your hand and you will get it like it.
Become your intuition.
Like what?
All objects I have to create.
What is the relationship, right?
So practice more with your hand and slowly the intuition will get built up.
Okay, if there is any doubt, let me know in the comment section we can discuss further.
Okay guys.
Bye.

--- LLD of Elevator System ---

On this side.
Welcome back.
And today in low level design we are going to design the elevator.
Okay so let's start without wasting any time.
The first thing is understanding the functionality of the program.
Okay.
Even though we know how elevator works, but still it's better that we list down all the functional
requirements.
Okay, so first thing is a building has multiple elevators and multiple floors.
Okay.
So yes, we will design this for a building which has multiple floors.
And also in one floor there could be a multiple elevators.
Okay.
So that is our first requirement.
A user can request an elevator externally using up down button at each floor.
This is another functionality.
We all know that each floor we have a button to call the elevator.
Okay.
And there are two buttons up and down.
Like up is like whether you want it to go up or down means you want it to go down or not.
Okay, based on this direction, one of the elevator.
Fulfill your request.
These up down direction button is used to choose the best elevator to serve the request.
Right.
So this is very important point because this up and down does not tell the direction of an elevator.
It just the buttons, external buttons at each floor they have a direction like one button is up and
another button is down.
This button is specifically used to choose the best elevator.
Okay to serve the request.
Once the best elevator is chosen, then you have to give another request, whether which floor you want
it to go.
Okay.
Very important point.
Once the elevator is chosen, the floor is added in the particular elevator bucket list.
Okay.
Now let's say that you are at first, second, third floor.
On the third floor.
User has selected a this button.
Click on this button.
Now out of this two elevator one of the elevator would be chosen.
That okay which gonna fulfill this request.
This is also one request okay.
So my algorithm would be like okay user is that currently third floor and wanted to go to Up.
Who can serve this request first.
Now let's say that elevator two is the best choice.
Now once that selection has been done after that we just add hey go to third floor.
So for elevator perceptive, it just floor direction.
It doesn't matter for the elevator.
Okay, so the same thing.
I told you this up and down direction is just to choose the best elevator out of many.
Once a particular elevator is chosen.
Okay, after that, the floor where it has to reach.
That's the request it has to fulfill.
So maybe this elevator.
Elevator two has to reach to second floor.
Fourth floor.
Third floor.
Okay, so this is another floor which it has to reach.
Okay.
So this is this will add into its bucket list how it will serve which request, whether it will first
serve two or 3 or 4.
That it's its algorithm.
That's elevator algorithm.
We will come to that one.
So that is another thing got cleared.
A user inside an elevator can also press internal button to select the destination flow.
So yes, we have an external button at each floor through which elevator can get a request.
Each elevator also has internal button.
Okay, so this elevator might have one internal button controller.
This elevator two might also have an internal button controller.
Okay.
That's it.
As a panel of ten.
Button 123456.
Even if somebody press button inside that internal button of a specific elevator.
Okay.
So that also generates a request, but only for that specific elevator only.
Let's say you are inside an elevator two and you press the fourth button.
So this request will append to this bucket of elevator two only.
Now here you don't have to do selection that.
Who will serve this request?
Internal button request.
Right.
It's clear.
Right.
So that's what I have written here.
Request generated from elevator.
Internal button.
Should always serve.
Should always serve by the same elevator.
Only if elevator two.
Internal button.
Internal button of elevator two.
If request is generated from the internal button of elevator two, it should be fulfilled by elevator
two only.
So there is no need to select the best elevator.
It's always the same elevator.
Clear elevator should remain idle when no request exists, and wake when the new request arrives.
So this is like we can discuss with our interviewer whether this they want it or not, or they just
want to keep on looking like, okay, if any request comes or request comes, request comes, or this
is generally, uh, interviewer is a follow up question.
Can you make if there is no request?
Can we make the elevator idle?
Go to the sleeve and when a new request comes, it should wake up.
So how do we implement that also?
So that's another functional requirement.
Another requirement is required should be ordered by direction.
Okay.
What does that mean is like generally how elevator works is when the elevator is going up.
Let's say 1234567.
These are the floors of the building.
When the elevators are going up, it.
It fulfill the request in ascending order.
So it will first fulfill let's say request is in third, then fifth, then seven.
It will not like first it will fulfill seven, then six, then four.
It should not be like any randomly I am picking the floors request and fulfilling it.
So when you are going up, visit floors in ascending order.
So it should be like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
And when you are going down, it should fulfill the request in descending order.
So first six, then five, then four, then three.
If there is any request, but it should be in descending order, it should not be.
Your elevators should not work like randomly first two, then it going six, then it going three.
Okay.
So this is critical.
You can say that the behavior of an elevator.
So these are the most functional requirement which we can think of.
The elevator we know okay.
So we next step is to identify the objects from this requirement.
The first thing I have already highlighted the yellow one while listing down this functional requirement.
So this yellow one I think could be a best possible.
Like uh, you can say that the choice for an object.
So here, if you see one is building a building has multiple elevator and multiple floors.
So building is one object.
You know that, right?
What thing can be an object?
An object is something which has two things.
Property and behavior.
Property is nothing but a member.
Variables.
You can say that.
And behavior is nothing but a method.
If any object we can have certain property and it has a unique behavior or some behavior, it can be
considered as an object.
So first object I thought of a building.
Then we have a floor okay.
We can have multiple floors.
So that is one object.
Then we have elevator.
It is just a Pojo class right.
So this elevator is not smart enough to take decision.
This elevator is just considered this elevator car.
Generally, we call elevator car.
Consider this elevator car as a dumb object where?
Like, if you give it a command.
Hey, go to second floor.
It goes to the second floor.
Hey, go to sixth floor.
It will go to the sixth floor.
Okay, so there should be someone who control this elevator.
And that's where elevator controller comes into the picture.
So for each elevator, we gonna have a controller.
It will control this elevator.
Okay.
So it will manage the bucket list of requests.
So let's say this elevator.
Elevator one elevator one controller.
So all this request.
Second floor.
Third floor.
Sixth floor.
Eighth floor.
10th floor.
It comes into the bucket of elevator one.
Now, how to fulfill it?
In what order?
Okay.
First it this has to go to the second floor.
Then it has to goes to third floor.
Then it has to go to eighth floor or Ten.
What's the logic?
What's the brain behind this sequence would be decided by elevator controller.
We will see that.
Okay, so another object which I can think of is external button.
Each floor has the external button.
Okay.
So from this also we get the request.
Similarly we have internal button.
Each elevator has one internal button.
So if you have three elevator then you will have a three internal button.
Okay.
So any request generated from this internal button would be fulfilled by this elevator.
Any requests generated by this internal button would be fulfilled by this elevator.
Likewise.
Okay.
So each elevator has one internal button.
Each floor has external button.
Then elevator scheduler.
So why I thought about it.
Is that so?
Here, if you see each floor has the external button up button down button, these are nothing but an
external button.
And whenever any request come from the external button, we have to choose the best elevator.
So now you have, let's say five.
Sorry.
When you have a five elevator in a building, a request come from the second floor and the user wanted
to go up out of this five which one was the best one?
So who will take the decision?
Okay.
What are the algorithms to decide.
So that's where Elevator scheduler.
So it maintains the list of controller.
So it has let's say five elevator.
So there would be five controllers.
Each one has their own controller elevator controller.
So this scheduler has a list of this.
It has a list of this plus.
It also has elevation select elevator selection strategy.
So whether I have to choose the nearest elevator or the least busy elevator, or could be possible even,
or if there is any different strategy.
Okay, so that's where Elevator Scheduler comes into the picture.
And then we have external dispatcher.
So why external dispatcher is which I think is good choice is that.
So here each floor has button external button.
And request come from all the floors.
All this external button okay.
And ultimately this will.
So this is like elevator one controller.
Elevator two controller.
Elevator three controller.
Let's say I have three lifts, so each one have each lift have their controller.
Now the request is generated by all of this external buttons okay.
So it's always better to have one mediator that all this request should comes to one place.
And from this one place, it should goes to a proper elevator wherever it has to go.
That is first thing.
Second thing is whenever any request comes from any particular floor.
Okay, so this external dispatcher, you can say that it act as a bridge between our floor and between
our controller and whatever the logic, like selection of a particular, uh, elevator, we can keep
it, keep it here.
So understand with this diagram.
So we have three flow.
Let's say n flow.
Flow one flow two fluoro n.
Each floor has external button.
Now the request can come from all of these floors.
External button.
Now they will go to the external dispatcher.
It will not directly go to a particular controller.
Okay.
So it will goes to an external dispatcher.
What external dispatcher will do.
First it will choose an elevator using scheduler.
So we have already think of an elevator scheduler.
Like out of so many lifts based on a particular algorithm, we have to choose the best lift for a particular
request okay.
So this external dispatcher, you can say that act as an orchestrator.
So it will invoke the scheduler and pass the request okay.
And this particular specific algorithm will give us one controller.
And then this will invoke that particular controller.
Make sense.
So this is external dispatcher gonna work.
Similarly we have internal dispatcher.
So now here this can be designed in a two way.
One thing is that let's say that we have internal button.
Internal button is very, very specifically tied up with elevator controller.
Okay.
An elevator controller controls a particular lift or elevator.
So it is also possible that internal button can directly pass the request to elevator controller.
That is also correct because they are very strictly coupled with each other.
Internal button request should goes to a particular elevator only okay or other way is that if you want
to follow the path of an external dispatcher.
So let's say I have elevator one, elevator two, elevator N.
Let's say if you have five elevator.
So each five elevator there would be one button for each one.
Okay.
So either each one can pass the request to their own controller or we can have internal dispatcher also.
That should be fine.
And it will pass to a specific elevator.
So internal button will pass.
Hey this is the request and this is the controller.
So internal dispatcher will just use the controller and invoke that specific controller method.
So this is just like a mediator.
Like if you have to put any logging or validation something you can put here instead of putting at every
internal button.
So that's where I say that.
Like if the request comes from many place and we have certain common logic, if we have to put for all
instead of duplicate, we can have at a common place through this design.
Okay.
but also that is possible that internal button can directly call their own elevator because it is very,
very tight coupled internal button and elevator controller.
Okay.
Otherwise this design is also fine.
That internal button is passing calling internal dispatcher.
Hey, this is my request.
I want to go to the fourth floor.
This is the controller, so it will pass the controller info also and directly invoke the controller.
Okay.
So these are the objects which we have identified.
Now before moving ahead with creation of a UML, let's first understand these two things elevator selection
strategy and elevator moving behavior.
So there are two things why I am saying this.
So generally in low level design Algorithm.
We don't have to write.
That is mostly asked in a DSA rounds.
Okay, so in low level design we generally deal with classes and objects.
Okay.
The most uh implementation algorithm is not required generally in a 45 minute round.
But if you have a machine coding round which is there for, let's say, 1.5 hour or two hours, then
there might ask you a full, complete coding.
And this elevated design is a very, very good question for the machine coding now.
And it has been asked a lot.
So that's why I will show you the full coding also.
And that's why we will discuss this algorithm also.
Okay.
So with code we will see.
Okay.
So let's say first selection strategy.
So we have already discussed this part that we have multiple floats.
Floor one.
Floor two.
Floor three.
Floor four.
Likewise, each floor has lift buttons which we are calling an external buttons, and we have.
Let's say three elevators or four five elevators like big building has more elevators also.
Now a user, by standing here press this from the floor to it.
Press this up button okay.
User wanted to go up.
Now we have to select one scheduler one elevator.
So that's elevator selection strategy deals with it okay.
So when external button is pressed when external button is pressed what information we have.
One is floor.
At which floor at which user is waiting for the lift and direction where user wanted to go up or down.
Now, when there are more than one elevator, then we need to select the elevator based on some strategy
like nearest.
Okay, let's say this lift is already going up and it's already at uh, let's say uh.
So this would be like you can say that, uh, I have written the floats in opposite direction, let's
say floor one.
Floor two.
This is for three, floor four okay.
And request is from the floor third.
Now lift is going up.
Now let's say this floor which is present at at two so we can find out that okay nearest.
So this is the nearest most elevator which can fulfill this request already going up.
User also wanted to go up and it is uh present at the third floor.
The current floor which is lift, is at second floor.
So it can take it because we know that when it is going up, it is fulfilled in increasing order.
So floor one, floor two, floor three, floor four.
Likewise, it will fulfill it.
Okay.
So it will.
This elevator is the best choice nearest.
So that is one algorithm.
Could be another is least busy.
Hey, this elevator already has four requests in its bucket.
This has zero.
This has two, this has one.
This is has ten requests.
So when any new request come.
Hey, pick the one which has the least, which is like less request in its bucket.
So we'll see that okay.
This elevator two has very less request in bucket.
Pick this one.
So these are the algorithms which we can implement in our selection strategy.
Like whenever any request come from the external button.
External button then which elevator should fulfill the request.
Okay.
So this is our selection strategy.
Now let's see this one.
So here if you see elevator selection strategy I have created one interface.
Okay I have created one interface.
Elevator selection strategy.
It has one method.
Select elevator.
Okay.
Now see what all things it required.
It need controllers okay.
So it has list of controllers.
Elevator controllers.
If you have 12345 lift means you have five.
Elevator controller.
Also, I told you that this lift or this elevator is not smart.
This controller make them smart.
So controller has all this information like how this elevator should behave, it manage its bucket list.
Okay.
So this selection strategy has a list of controller okay.
So it need this list of controller also request flow.
The request which has come the external request which has come from which flow and the direction where
the user wanted to go up or down.
So all information it need is this.
Now let's go to its implementation.
Nearest elevator and least busy.
So here I have one nearest and least busy.
These are the two implementation.
So nearest elevator.
So here if you see what I am doing here is nearest one.
See I am not saying this is the best algorithm.
There could be many gaps.
There could be many validations missing.
This is just like, uh, fully functional one, but it can be improved.
Okay, Now you have list of controller.
You know that at which floor you have to go and also the user direction which it want to go.
Now in the nearest one what I am doing is so you have five elevator controller, elevator controller
one from this list right.
Elevator controller two elevator controller three.
Elevator controller five.
So total five.
Elevator controller.
Now each one I am checking.
Hey user wanted to go up.
Is are you also going up?
Is elevator control?
Are you also going up?
If yes, what is the distance difference between two.
So the floor user is waiting at is let's say fourth and you are going up and currently you are you are
serving first floor.
So means you have three floor difference okay.
So currently this is our minimum.
This is the best candidate.
Now I go to the second one.
Hey, are you also going up?
Yes.
Currently.
Which floor you are serving?
Let's say I'm serving currently.
Second floor.
So means yes.
You can also serve this one because it's an ascending right.
So you can serve this.
So it is fourth floor.
You are currently at second floor.
So you have a two floor difference.
So minimum floor you have to travel is two.
So now minimum is this so nearest I am taking out the nearest.
That's what I am doing here.
So I am iterating over each controller okay I am taking out the next floor.
Which elevator is going to stop.
So currently it's already moving state okay so each elevator has two things current floor.
And the next stoppage.
So means see in this bucket let's say currently it has at.
second floor or let's say fifth floor, then sixth floor, then it has to serve eighth floor like this.
But current floor, let's say it has a second.
Okay.
So this is let's say a scenario why I have two feet on an elevator current floor.
And next stop.
So current floor which elevator is at its let's say second.
And here this is its bucket.
So now elevator has look at its bucket and decided that okay I am ready to fulfill the next request.
So it's take out one request and put a next stoppage of minus five okay.
And it remove this bucket five from the bucket.
Now elevator is moving.
It's going up to this next stoppage.
Now let's say if any four comes you will say that hey current floor at elevator is two.
And can it fulfill for.
But actually it's it not.
It's going up.
But the next stoppage is five.
It already had picked the five.
It already has taken the request for the five.
Now four is coming late.
Okay.
It will only be able to serve when it's now going to move down.
So now here.
That's why I am taking next stoppage.
Once the next stoppage is there means lift isn't moving.
Instead it will only now stop here.
It has already taken one request from the bucket.
It removed that request from the bucket and now it is in running state.
It will move at that stoppage only.
Okay, so I am using next floor stoppage.
Okay.
So this is the condition for the nearest.
Is the moving direction of an elevator is equal to the same direction where user wanted to go.
Okay, let's say user wanted to go up, user wanted to go up.
And elevator is also going up.
Yes.
And okay.
Here if you see that next floor top is less than equals to request floor here.
In this case what I am checking is that the lift is below the request because it is going up.
It will fulfill the request in increasing order.
So lift currently now going to stop let's say at third floor.
It's next stoppage is it's next stoppage is third floor.
And the floor from where the request has come for the up is from the fourth floor.
So yes, it can fulfill because even the lift is in moving state.
It's next stoppage would be third floor and the requested the request coming from the fourth floor for
the up only.
So yes, this is possible.
It can fulfill this request.
Okay.
Because after three it can fulfill four in ascending order while going up.
So it can fulfill that one.
So this is the best candidate.
Similarly I am checking there is that like if lift is going down, if lift is going down then it should
only able to handle requests which are below it.
So if lift next stoppage is let's say three, then if our new request comes from floor one then for
the down also, then it is like best strategy.
Nearest lift is going down.
User also wanted to go down and the next stop is where lift will stop is at third and the request has
come from the floor one.
Yeah it should be able to fulfill it because while going down, it fulfill in descending order.
That's a nine, eight, seven, six.
Then it will three, then one.
So in decreasing order.
Okay, so that's what I am checking if the elevator is going up and the request which has come.
Okay.
It is at higher position.
Yes I am calculating the distance and here I am picking the minimum one okay.
So this is an algorithm I think we already do DSA questions.
So this would be very easy for you to grasp okay.
So what here I am doing is like yes it is the same direction.
Candidate lift is also going in the same direction where user wanted to go.
And yes, the request can be fulfilled because when lift is going up, the request coming from the higher
floor only and when the lift is going down, the request coming from the lower floor only.
Okay.
so yes, it is a same direction candidate.
And now I am checking the distance like okay, next floor stop is where the lift will stop and from
where the request has come.
What's the difference.
So I will always pick the minimum.
If it is less than the minimum then this is the best controller for me.
Okay, now let's say that if none of the controller is going in the same direction, let's say elevator
one is going down.
Elevator two is also going down.
But the user has requested for, let's say, up from floor four.
I want to go up, but both the elevator are moving in opposite direction.
So what to do.
So I just added like okay, fallback condition would be like if I am not able to choose the best elevator
in same direction, see if I can pick the ideal one, okay, if there is any idol.
If that also if there is no elevator.
Only two elevator.
Both are.
I am not able to.
Both are not idol.
Then I am directly picking the first one.
So that's what I am saying.
I am not saying this algorithm is the best one for the nearest.
So you can improve it.
But this is just an example like first priority I am going giving to the elevator which is going in
the same direction.
Okay.
And can fulfill the request.
If it is going down, it can fulfill the request below it.
If it is going up, it can fulfill the request above it.
Okay.
So this is my first priority.
If not, I am trying to pick any idol elevator.
If there is no idol, pick the first one.
Okay, you can improve it again.
I am saying this is not the best, uh, nearest elevator implementation.
This is just for demo.
Then second is least busy.
So here, if you see that least busy, what I am doing is here its implementation.
We see least busy.
So each each elevator has a bucket where it keep the request which it need to fulfill.
Okay.
Second floor, fourth floor eighth floor, 10th floor.
It has to go like this.
So that's where I am.
Just checking for each controller.
I have this information for each controller.
I am just clubbing all the load.
I will come to this minimum and maximum priority queue.
I'm just clubbing all the load into present into their bucket list, and I'm just picking the one which
has the minimum load and picking that controller.
Okay, so elevator selection strategy done.
Now let's come to the car elevator car moving behavior.
So see once an elevator is chosen.
Once an elevator is chosen, that okay?
Out of ten, this is my elevator.
It has to fulfill the request.
Now, it doesn't have to worry about the direction.
All it has is which floor I want to go.
Tell me.
You tell me which floor I want to go.
Okay.
Whether I want to go at fifth floor, then third floor, then seventh floor, then 10th floor, then
whatever, 20th floor.
So this is like maintenance.
So these are all requests for it.
Okay.
So if it get five it will goes to the fifth floor.
If it get four it will go to the fourth floor.
But to best optimize the elevator or to have a less waiting time for the user, there are generally
two type of elevator algorithm, generally scan algorithm and algorithm.
So scan algorithm how it works it elevator start from the start and go till one end.
Okay.
Let's say these are the floor.
Floor one.
Floor two.
And this floor 17.
So elevator starting from the floor one it goes till 17th floor.
And any request which comes in mid it will fulfill it.
Let's say while it going up.
So it is going in up direction for now.
While it going up let's say two has come so it will fulfill two.
Now it going up.
Now let's say that it has come.
Somebody has to go to eighth floor so it will fulfill it.
So it is maintaining its bucket list.
Okay.
Now somebody has to go 12th so it will fulfill this.
Once it reached inland now it will reverse its direction.
Now it will come down and it will come down till then.
Now any request which is now in this moving direction, it will fulfill that.
Now let's say request come from 11.
So it is going down right.
So it will while going to 11 it will fulfill this now if requests come for six.
If while going there it will stop here also like this.
And it will keep going like this.
So it will move from end to end.
First it goes up, then it goes down, then it goes up, then it goes down, goes on.
Then that's where look algorithm comes here is that it is similar to scan but with one change is that
don't go till end, stop when there is no request.
So now let's say that it is starting that okay it is going up because request is there for 12th floor.
So it has to go up okay.
Because current flow let's say this is current flow at fifth.
Now request in its bucket request come that from the 12th floor this elevator controller has accepted
a request for the 12th floor.
So currently it has fifth position.
So it has to go to this 12.
It has to go up now once it has reached till 12, so means it has fulfilled this request.
It has stopped there.
Now, if there is no more request, it will stop there.
Now let's say user inside it gives it a command to go to, let's say uh sixth floor.
Okay.
So it accepted from the internal button.
Right.
So it will accept it.
One more request.
Let's say go to six.
So currently it has 12th floor.
It has to go to six.
So it has to go down.
So it will go till sixth floor.
Okay.
Yes.
If in while it going to the sixth.
If there is any request come let's say it is currently at uh 12th.
It is not yet started for the sixth.
Okay.
So six is still into the bucket.
It has not picked it yet because once it picked, it means it has.
It is his next stoppage.
It will in running state it will not stop.
But if it isn't currently bucket list means it is lift is not yet picked.
Now if request come that okay I want some body has to stop at ten.
So now while going down it will first fulfill ten and then it will fulfill six.
And then it will stop here.
It will not go till end.
If there is no more request, it will stop.
Now let's say if request comes for 14, then it will go here.
So you got it.
What it is doing it.
It is looking ahead.
After reaching a particular point, it says it.
Look ahead.
Is there any more request ahead?
Then only I will move.
Otherwise no, I will stop.
Okay, so that's where the look algorithm is.
So we can implement this look algorithm using two priority queues.
One is minimum priority queue.
Max priority queue.
So that's where I am showing you.
So this is the implementation.
So here understand with this When the lift goes up, it has to fulfill the request in increasing order.
When the lift goes down, it has to fulfill the request in descending order.
Okay, so that's where I have maintained two Q minimum priority queue and maximum priority queue.
This is why it will has to go up direction.
And this is when it has to go the down direction.
So it will use this queue accordingly.
Current elevator direction is idle.
Currently it is waiting.
And let's say its current floor is fifth.
It is waiting.
Now some user has request destination float two from the second floor.
So now see why I am not discussing about the direction here.
Now see the request has been received by Elevator Controller one.
Let's say I am talking about this elevator controller one now request has received to the elevator controller
one.
It has to fulfill a particular floor okay direction.
It will automatically find out like okay, if flow of lift is at current floor fifth and request come
from 12, it has to go up.
If the lift is at 12 floor and request come from floor two, it has to go down that it information.
It can do what elevator controller maintain is the list task list how it is managing that we are saying
all is interested in the floor.
Now the request comes for the floor two okay, now current floor.
Which elevator has is currently an idle position, but the floor is at fifth means.
If second is less than current floor.
If two is less than five, what does it mean?
Means lift has to go down.
Okay, so it will be served when going down.
Current floor is fifth, lift is at fifth and request come is for two.
So lift has to go down right.
And for going down I am using max priority queue.
So I put two here.
Now another destination come for four.
So four is you can say that four is less than current floor or four is here.
If you see that current floor currently lift is not moving.
So current floor is still five and four is less than five.
Yes.
Means lift has to go down.
So I am pulling putting into the max priority queue only and max priority queue four is always on.
The maximum will always be on the top.
Okay, now let's say elevator reached till fourth floor.
Okay.
And request is served.
Or you can say that like elevator has reached the fourth floor, so it has removed the fourth floor
from the bucket and properly serve.
The request means now elevator.
Current floor has been fourth.
Now the request which it has, this elevator controller which has accepted is six.
Now current floor is four.
So elevator has to move up right.
So for up it has to use the min priority queue.
So it will put this six into the min priority queue.
But see that the direction of the elevator is still down because currently it is.
Using the max priority queue means it is going down and it will go down till there is a request.
That's what we have seen right here.
It will go down till there is request.
Till there is request till there is request.
As soon as there is no request then it can change for the up.
Okay.
So even though our min priority queue has record or request is still our elevated direction is down
because it is going down from fifth floor.
It comes to the fourth floor.
Now it will remove two and it will goes to the second floor.
Likewise it will do okay.
So our current floor which is here elevator present is at fourth floor.
So now request come for fifth elevator is at four.
Means it has to go up to reach to this floor.
Right.
So I put it into the minimum priority queue in min priority queue top always store the minimum okay.
But still that elevator direction is down because max priority queue is not yet empty.
Now let's say elevator reached to the second floor and request is served.
So two is also successfully fulfilled and maximum priority queue is now empty.
Now here elevator current floor is two.
Now it will change its direction to up and now it will start consuming this min priority queue.
From here it will start.
So it will first fulfill five, then the next it will fulfill six.
And if there is no further request, it will look for max priority queue trying to go down.
If both are empty it become idle.
So that's what I am trying to do here in this elevator controller, this one.
So understand this I have two priority queue.
So here I have taken a concurrency.
You can say that the priority queue which can handle concurrency.
Why?
I told you we have multiple floors.
Floor one, floor two, floor three, floor four.
For and they have button also.
So our elevator our elevator controller it's bucket can get a request from any of this one okay.
And also it has one internal button also.
So request come from any of this floor okay.
If this elevator is chosen as based on upon algorithm, least busy or nearest is this elevator is chosen
means it can accept the request from anyone.
Okay so multiple there are ways through which request is coming into this queue.
And it is also removing an addition happen in parallel.
It is lift is also moving.
It is serving the request also while new requests are coming to.
So that's why it is always better to use to do properly handling the concurrency.
So that's why I am using a priority blocking queue.
Okay, so up min queue is for the violet going up.
Minimum priority queue down.
Max queue.
It's while it has to go down.
It is a maximum priority queue.
Now it has one method.
Submit request.
Okay.
All it interested is the destination flow.
When somebody is calling.
This submit request means this lift is chosen.
Okay.
Out of this three.
Lift.
Elevator one.
Elevator two.
Elevator three.
Each one have their own controller.
Now if anyone calling submit request means out of this three for a fulfilling this flow request or any
flow request, this elevator is chosen.
So all it interested in like okay, which floor I have to serve.
So okay, that's what I am doing.
So when it it takes it, expose a submit request method and have a destination flow where I have to
go and now it NQ request.
So here I am doing this how it meant, how it insert a record into min priority queue and max priority
queue.
So here if you see I am checking if destination floor the floor where user wanted to go the request
I am accepting right?
It is accepting.
Hey, a new request is coming for the fifth floor.
Where to put.
Okay, so now it is checking.
Hey, my next stoppage.
I told you already about the stoppage, right?
Difference between current floor and stoppage.
Current floor means where the elevator currently at second floor.
Third floor.
Fourth floor.
Next stoppage means elevator has already taken, which it is going to fulfill it, so its next stoppage
would be here.
So even if you come, elevator is at first floor itself, but it has accepted this request from the
queue.
Let's say min priority queue.
It has removed five and it has accepted it.
Now its next row would be five.
You can't say that.
Hey, current floor of the elevator is one.
Why can't it fulfill second?
It can't because it has already accepted five.
So it will first go to five and while moving up because from first to five it has to go up.
So it will not fulfill two.
At this point of time.
When it goes down, then only it would be fulfilled because even though this is the current floor,
but it has already accepted this, so it is its next stoppage.
It has removed this from the bucket and accepted this.
Okay.
So that's why I am checking if the destination floor, whatever the new request is coming.
If it is equals to the next stoppage.
Anyway, I have to stop there.
So do nothing already.
Lyft is going to that floor only if destination floor is greater than the next stoppage.
So means Lyft is going up.
Okay, I am checking if the destination floor, which is five, is greater than the next stoppage.
So next stoppage of Lyft is that next stoppage is three.
Currently, Lyft is at first and Lyft is already moving.
Next stoppage is three.
If the request destination is for greater than then means yes while going up it can be fulfilled so
it will put into min priority queue.
Yeah, the next floor where Lyft will come is three.
And you are.
You want the Lyft at five?
Yes.
It can go up in the same direction.
It can fulfill an increasing order.
One, three.
Let's say then five.
Else I am putting into down scenario is that let's say request R, next stoppage is three and the request
come from two.
So here lift is already even.
Lift is at first but the next stoppage is three.
Lift will only stop at three.
Now.
If the request is for two it will not stop.
So that's why it will.
I have put into Max.
Once it reached till 515, then it will going, going down.
It will fulfill the second.
Got it.
So that's what I am checking.
So this is one way of inserting the request into minimum and maximum.
Okay, so based on the stoppage I am selecting.
Okay.
And also you can, uh, do this like if stoppage is at let's say 10th floor.
So lift stoppage is 10th floor and request request coming for let's say fifth floor.
So what I am checking request is at 10th floor.
Destination floor greater than equals to next floor stoppage.
No destination is your five.
It is not greater than this.
So means it has to be put into max.
It's going down so it will put into down max.
Q okay, put it into five.
Okay, so with this scenario, with this if else condition my min queue for up scenario and for Or max
Q for down scenario is properly handled.
Okay.
And very important thing is my next floor stop is because let's say if any bugs comes in your implementation
that hey, my current floor lift is at one.
And uh.
Even though it accepted the floor two, why it didn't stop there?
Because, uh, we have to while from the queue, we have to first, let's say if you have three, first
you have to remove first three to fulfill it.
Right.
So means it has accepted.
So it will next stoppage is three.
So it will not stop at like three.
It it will move to three.
And after that it will only fulfill able to fulfill upper than more than three.
Okay.
So your lift will behave improperly because first from first it will goes to three.
And now if you insert two it will go down to two then.
Okay, so you are up.
Priority queue will not work like properly if you just look at current flow.
Okay so next floor stoppage is very important.
And also what I am doing is I have created one monitor object.
Okay.
Just very simple monitor object.
Whenever any submit request comes in I just notify means if there is any elevator sleeping, wake it
up, wake up.
There is a request.
Okay.
So this is for submitting the request.
Now here if you see this is the control elevator we will see that during the implementation.
But I hope this, uh, min priority queue.
Max priority queue is clear, Which I wanted to tell you about the look algorithm.
We can implement this with min priority queue and max priority queue.
Now let's see the UML.
If some basic things are our clear that how elevator works, what are the algorithms as elevator selection
strategy and all.
Now first thing I am designing elevator, an object which move to a particular direction when asked
to.
Simple.
It's a very dumb object.
You whichever floor.
Let's say first it do ten.
It can.
If you ask it to go to one, it will go one.
If you ask it to stop it, sorry, it will stop.
So that's our elevator car.
Let's see this object.
So what I have I have id, I have current floor also I have next stoppage.
Next stoppage, next floor stoppage.
Moving direction where the elevator is going up or down or idle, and the door.
So door has nothing but an it's an enum up, down, or this is the elevator direction.
Door is this object which has simple door state, which is an enum door open, door closed and it has
just exposed method.
Open the door.
Close the door.
That's all okay.
And it has one method move elevator.
So okay.
Move elevator is very very simple.
Like whatever the destination floor I have.
Like I told you, it's it's not a smart object.
Whichever floor you will ask it to stop, it will go there.
So here I have this logic.
So whatever the destination floor you have asked me to, I change my next stoppages there.
I just accept it.
You asked me to move.
I will move my next stoppages destination floor only.
Okay.
And it will.
Just checking.
Hey, if my current floor itself is my next floor stoppage itself, just simple.
Open the door.
Okay.
And don't even move.
Okay.
Otherwise, it will start from its current floor.
Okay.
And close the door first.
And it is starting from the current floor till the next floor.
Stoppage, which is nothing but a destination floor.
Okay.
And it changes direction to up.
Why?
I am saying that if the next floor stoppage is greater than current floor.
If current floor is current, floor of the lift is two and the next stoppage.
The destination which you have passed is, let's say ten means it has to go up.
So that's what I am doing here.
If the next floor stoppage is greater than current floor means it has to go up.
It has to do plus one plus one plus one like this.
Okay.
So start, start from this floor till the next floor destination do plus one.
I am just making it sleep so that it it would be easy to our test.
Otherwise it finish as soon as possible.
Okay and I am keep updating my current floor.
So current flow.
Let's say it is starting from zero.
So I equals to one.
So current floor is my one set current floor one I plus one current flow 2345.
And when it reached till this destination okay let's say float ten.
So current floor is ten.
And then it will stop.
Okay.
If your destination floor is below the current floor.
So it will go to the else part.
So means it has to go down okay.
So that's why I told you this elevator car itself can find whether it has to go up or go down based
on its current floor and the destination where you have asked it.
Okay, so if the destination is set up, it will go up plus one plus one plus one.
If the destination is down, it will go from here down minus one, minus one, minus one.
So that's what I am doing.
Minus, minus.
Keep setting the current floor, decreasing the current floor with every loop.
And once it reached till this destination, it will stop.
It goes out and it will open the door.
So very very simple move elevator method.
Okay.
Uh, based on the current floor.
And the next stop is next stop is nothing but a destination floor.
It goes and goes down.
Goes up or goes down.
So elevator car is done.
Then we have this elevator controller, the brain of the elevator car.
So here elevator controller has elevator car okay.
That's why it has a relationship.
I told you it has it.
Maintain the two queues.
Min.
Priority queue.
Max priority queue.
This is for up direction.
This is for down direction.
Again, this is an algorithm.
Okay.
If you can think of some different better algorithm which you need only one priority queue or not even
a priority queue at all.
That's an implementation.
Okay, so while submitting a request currently for now, as per my logic, whatever the destination
floor this elevator controller is getting, I am deciding based on the next stoppage, based on the
next stoppage of the elevator, whether I have to put at min, or whether I have to put at max where
I have to put okay.
So that's where elevator controller.
Whenever any submit request comes, I calls NQ request this method and based on the next floor stoppage
I either put into up and down, we have already seen that it also has one method control elevator,
which is the runnable.
This is important.
So I have created this class implements runnable because I have to create thread.
So this two elevator need to run in parallel okay so how they will run.
So that's why I create a run from this.
I will create two threads so that they both the elevator will start okay.
In the control elevator.
See what I am doing?
I told you we are implementing look algorithm.
So it will goes to a position let's say going up for now.
So it will look at up priority queue.
When it is empty it will stop here.
It will not go till end.
This is our end.
This is start.
So then it will look for down priority queue.
So till wherever the down priority queue has the request, it will fulfill there only and then it will
again look.
Hey is there any up?
So alternatively it go and check okay.
And if both are empty it should stop.
It should not unnecessarily go to end.
So that's what I am doing while true okay I am first checking if up priority queue and down priority
queue is empty for this elevator.
If there is no request at all, I am just printing it.
This I am just moving the direction change to the idle okay and it goes to the sleep.
This elevator goes to sleep if there is no request present and when it will arrive and when it will
wake up.
Whenever any new submit request comes, it will put into one of its queue, either up or men are up.
Priority queue and down priority queue.
And after that it will notify.
Okay, so this is just to have a behavior where in our requirement gathering.
If interviewer has asked that okay do this elevator should remain sleep when no request exit and wake
when new request arrive because I got from engineer that this has been asked as a requirement.
So that's why I implemented this.
You can simply do that.
Then the both minimum priority queue and maximum priority queue is empty.
Go to the sleep and elevated direction is idle.
Okay, now here I am checking first going up.
So here I am first going up and checking here if you see this one.
Up min dot is empty.
So it is while first I'm giving priority to the up direction.
So here we'll go.
It goes to the up direction.
Okay.
So it is checking the up priority queue.
Up min.
Priority queue.
So it will pick one one floor out of it and ask the elevator to move to that direction.
Okay.
Once it is empty, then it will stop here and look for the down.
If down, Max priority queue is not empty.
Take one one floor from it and ask the elevator to go to that floor.
Okay.
Once it's done, it has to repeat it while true.
Okay.
After that, it has to go up, down, and then again go up.
When both are empty, move.
Go to the sleep state.
So elevator controller is clear.
And in the demo I will show you how.
We will create two threads and all.
The third is elevator scheduler.
So elevator scheduler, I told you that here, if you see it has a list of elevator controller.
I told you we can have five five elevator.
And each elevator car has their own controller.
So we have a list of elevator controller.
And also out of this controller, whenever any request comes from external, we have to pick one controller
based on the particular strategy.
So that's why I have created using a strategy design pattern elevator selection strategy.
So I have one strategy here okay which is an interface.
We have already seen that nearest elevator strategy least busy strategy.
We have already seen that okay.
And here I am using the interface here.
So in dynamically we can tell which strategy we want to use okay.
So here in the elevator scheduler I have one set strategy.
And the second method I have is assign elevator.
So how it is choosing it is calling the strategy.
Strategy dot select elevator.
Whatever the controller it will give.
It will also return that.
Okay.
So it will just provide a list of controllers.
Okay.
And expose the method assign elevator from which we can.
It will invoke the selection strategy like whichever we have selected, whichever the algorithm we have
chosen based on that it will pick one controller and return.
So this is clear till now the this is clear right now button and dispatcher.
Now we have button.
External button.
So here we have external button and internal button.
Let's first focus on external button.
External button from the previous discussion I told you that, uh, any request which come from external
button, we have put a mediator dispatcher.
Okay.
So it has a dependency with an external dispatcher.
Dispatcher.
What will do is like it will do two things for us.
First, it has a dependency with scheduler.
So what it will do is it will call the scheduler first okay.
So it will call the scheduler first.
Get a controller okay.
And using that controller it will invoke the particular controller.
So that's what I am doing.
Let's see external button.
External button has a dispatcher object okay.
So when we create an external button object right we will put a dispatcher object.
So whenever any floor.
Press the button of an external button.
Okay.
What it will do is it will submit the request.
From which floor?
From external.
Two things only comes.
We have already discussed floor where user is present and the direction where user wanted to go.
So it will call the button is calling the dispatcher okay.
And pass this floor and direction.
Now what dispatcher will do?
Dispatcher has the scheduler right.
So dispatcher first asks the scheduler, hey, this is the floor okay I have this is the floor from
where request has come.
And user wanted to go in this direction.
Assign me one elevator.
It will ask the scheduler.
Now what scheduler will do?
Scheduler.
Has a list of controllers, multiple list of controllers, and one strategy, so it will use this strategy
to pick one controller out of this and return one controller, and that controller dispatcher will use
to submit the request to an elevator.
Okay, so that's how it is linked.
When user press an external button, a press button, the request goes to one of the controller.
But how it will first goes to dispatcher.
Dispatcher will ask to the scheduler that, hey, this is the floor and this is the direction.
Uh, assign one elevator to me.
Okay.
So scheduler out of this multiple controller and based on this strategy, pick one controller, give
it to it, and it will call the elevator submit request.
Okay.
Similarly internal button.
Now internal button.
One thing is that internal button has controller.
I told you internal button is very tightly coupled with controller.
Each controller has one internal button.
So this button is specifically for this controller whatever the object we will add.
So either it can directly call elevator controller itself okay.
Or if we want okay, we can take out an object of an internal dispatcher.
And we can ask the internal dispatcher to submit the request.
So you can, uh, consider that internal dispatcher currently here is of no use because we are not logging.
We don't have any common validation.
You can simply understand that internal button is directly submitting a request to the elevator controller.
Okay.
So this is clear the buttons and the dispatchers now the floor and the building.
So I have created a floor object.
So floor has what floor number.
It has two button up button down button Okay, so it has two external button, one is up button, another
is down button and it has method up button.
Press down button.
So here we'll see.
So floor floor number.
External button has one up and external button down.
Okay.
So whenever you create a floor it will create like this is the floor number.
What is the floor number added.
And it will create two buttons.
And while creating a two external buttons we have to provide a dispatcher.
Also because external button has dispatcher.
So we have to provide the dispatcher also.
And when a user passes the up button, when user presses the up button, so it will pass the request
to this external button.
Right.
So floor is this floor number okay.
And direction would be up.
So this direction would be up when you press the up button that user wanted to go up when user presses
down button.
So this is the floor and user direction is down.
User wanted to go down and based on that elevator button can goes to the dispatcher.
Dispatcher goes to the scheduler.
Pick one controller and the controller.
We can submit the request.
Make sense.
So and yes we have a building which has a list of floors.
That's our total design of an elevator.
Okay I have shared the PDF link of this and also shared the git.
You can check out the code.
Let's see the demo.
So in the demo what?
See what I am doing?
First I am creating an elevator car and their controller.
So first what we are doing is we are creating this elevator object.
So I'm creating a new elevator.
Give it an ID one.
Okay.
Currently, direction would be idle by default.
Direction is, uh.
We have given an idle.
So here.
Elevator car direction is idle.
Current floor is zero.
Okay, so ID we have given is one.
I told you that each elevator car need controller.
So I am creating a controller for this.
So I'm creating a new elevator controller.
And this elevator car I have assigned.
Similarly I created second lift second elevator and created its controller.
Also new elevator controller.
This is handling car two.
Elevator car two.
So we have created this.
We have created this.
Then I am creating one internal button for each elevator.
I told you that internal button is tightly coupled with elevator controller.
For each elevator, there is one internal button, so that's what I am doing.
Internal button for elevator one.
So I am creating new internal button.
And this controller.
So this one handles controller one and internal button for elevator two handles this controller two.
So I have two internal buttons okay.
So this one is also created.
So this dependency is also fulfilled.
Now I am creating a scheduler with nearest strategy.
So I am creating now scheduler object.
So new elevator scheduler.
It has a list of controller right.
So I am passing an array as list controller one.
Controller two.
So I have a two controller right for two left.
So list is updated.
And strategy I passed this like new nearest elevator strategy.
So while creating it setting up I have provided that follow the nearest one strategy.
That is also done.
Now here I am creating an external dispatcher.
So I have created a dispatcher object.
New external dispatcher and pass this scheduler object which we have created to this one.
So this is also fulfilled and we can create an object of the dispatcher also.
Now once we have created a dispatcher now I am creating a building and floors.
So here I am creating new building.
Total floors I wanted is five and I passed this external dispatcher object.
So in the building constructor what I am doing is whatever the number of floors, I am creating that
many floors.
Okay so floats dot add new floor.
Okay I'm creating let's say five right.
So five floats I am creating new floor 12345.
And each one has this dispatcher.
So each one.
So I am creating five floors.
Floor number 12345 new floors.
And while creating a each floor up button and down button has reference to this dispatcher okay.
It has reference to this dispatcher external button.
Okay.
So here I am creating an.
External button up and down.
So here when the floor.
New external button.
New external button an external button need dispatcher.
And that dispatcher we have already created so that we are passing from the building.
Right.
So here building create a five floor.
And this is the external dispatcher.
So again it is creating running five time loops creating five floor.
And here I'm passing the dispatcher and the floor.
It will create floor number up and down new external button.
And while creating external button it pass the dispatcher okay.
So everything is set up now.
So building done, floor done.
All thing is done right now I am creating two threads and the what?
The thread which we are running is this one elevator controller control elevator.
So this is what we have.
So I am running it starting the two thread okay controller one and controller two.
I am giving it a name.
Elevator one.
Elevator two start a start.
So now two threads are running.
They will make uh, so it has a elevator controller has run method that will got invoked and run method
is calling control elevator.
So this will now start running okay.
While true up currently see we don't have any request.
So priority queue is empty down.
Priority queue is empty.
So elevator would be an idle state and it would go to the sleep for now.
Okay.
When we have started it, both the elevator.
Elevator one.
Elevator two.
Both will go.
Might be sleeping but it is started now.
Let's submit the request.
So I am submit the request.
Like this.
First, I am making an external call from third floor up.
That's a five floor we have created, right?
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five floor.
So first request is coming from this third.
Wanted to go up then external again external call floor five down.
From this it wants to go down.
Okay.
And let's say this is two lift elevator one.
Elevator two.
Now from internal elevator one press for has done.
So there is an internal button let's say so for come from this one okay.
Then again internal from elevator five comes and then external call floor one down and external call
flow to up.
So these are the sequence of requests which we are going to do.
Okay.
So this is just to go through what I have done here.
So to submit a request what I'm doing is from third floor I need to press an up button.
So building dot get floor third.
So get floor is just nothing but a method out of five floor.
It will return me that particular floor.
Okay so building dot get floor.
Give me the third floor okay.
And press its up button.
When you know that when you press the up button what would happen?
Press up button.
We have seen that what it will do up button.
It will pass the request to the external button floor number and direction up okay.
So when you press the up button so what it will do is it will call the press button.
Floor is third.
Direction you wanted to go is up, which further goes to dispatcher and all.
We have already seen the flow so.
And for the testing purpose only, I put A55 millisecond delay so that lift to.
We get some, uh, not realistic, but at least it's easy to, uh, test it.
Otherwise it will just one lift itself will complete everything.
Okay.
Similarly, our second was like from floor five down.
So building dot get floor fifth floor presses down button from elevator one itself.
I need to press the fourth button.
So internal button of elevator one I am pressing the button four.
So this request should be handled by the elevator one only internal button press five.
So this should be handled by elevator one only.
Then this is two external call from floor one down floor to up.
So that's the same thing for one down flow to up.
So the same thing I have coded through this.
Now we have two floors.
Okay.
And here I have like one more internal button.
So here we have to write it.
Seven.
What we are doing is internal button for elevator one.
One more time.
We have already have internal for elevator one two times.
Let's remove this one.
Okay.
So let's say that this is the request which we are currently handling.
Now I am running it.
Run.
So see this.
Let's first focus on elevator one.
So we will see all this.
Elevator one one.
So currently if you see both elevator two and elevator one is idle.
Idol.
Okay, so we will also see how this thing goes.
Elevator one.
Elevator two.
So it has its own bucket.
Min max.
It has its own bucket.
Min max something.
Okay, so currently when we started both the threads.
So both elevators.
Min priority queue.
Max priority queue is empty.
So that's why they are idle.
Now the first request come was destination three.
So who accepted this elevator?
One.
Okay.
This one.
Just catalog.
Uh, not catalogs.
You can say that says, uh, console logs I have added just for the debugging or testing purpose.
So first request was over this one.
Right.
Floor.
Third press up.
So who is accepted?
Elevator one.
Okay, so elevator based upon our nearest algorithm, which might not be perfect.
Again, I am saying.
So this has accepted this.
So it has currently its current floor is zero.
Now this is its destination which it has to go.
So means it has to go up.
So it will put it to its min third.
Okay.
Now it says that serving floor three by elevator one current floor is zero.
So it removed it.
Serving means next next stoppage.
So serving is three.
So now it started moving up okay so here here if you see elevator current floor is zero going up.
Elevator current floor is one going up okay.
While elevator is at current floor one, it accepted two more requests destination floor four accepted
by one, and destination five accepted by one because they are generated from internal button from elevator
one itself.
So it would be accepted by elevator one only.
So it has now four and five okay.
And why I am putting into a min priority queue.
Because see, elevator one is going up and the next stoppage is three.
Serving is three okay.
So it can easily handle four and five.
So elevator one current floor is two going up.
Elevator one current floor is three going up.
So now this three is the serving right.
So it reached till this point.
So now it will open the door here.
So where is that elevator one.
Current floor is three going up opening the elevator door for the elevator one.
So it has opened the door and this is fulfilled properly.
So now it's current flow is three.
Serving or serving floor was also three.
So now they are same means they have reached to this destination.
Now it is going that serving floor.
For now it has take out this four from the minimum priority queue.
Now our next stoppage is four.
Thus it is serving now four okay so elevator current floor is three going up okay.
While it is going up it has also accepted one more request.
Destination floor two accepted by elevator one okay.
Now see here.
Elevator is going up so two it cannot put here.
Current next stoppage is four okay.
It can only take if the request is more than this increasing order 567 in the minimum.
So if it is not in increasing order, it has to put here while going down.
So two it has put into max.
When it will go down, it will use that.
So elevator current flow is for going up.
And now it has reached till the next stoppage for.
So it will open the door here.
So now its current flow is also four.
And next stoppage was four.
So it will reach there.
So it will opening the door at of elevator one.
Now it removed the next from the minimum.
So currently it is still not looking.
Max.
It is still going up.
It has more data right.
So now it remove five.
So next stoppage or serving is now become five.
Current flow is four.
So it has two means go up only okay.
So elevator current flow is four.
Going up.
Elevator current flow is five.
Going up means it current flow is five.
So it reached to this next stoppage.
So it will open the door.
Now Opening the elevator door of one.
Okay, now here, if you see it has fulfilled this and minimum priority queue is empty.
Now it will look at max priority queue two.
So its current floor is fifth.
This is current floor.
Now it will look at this and now it will become its next stoppage.
Next stoppage or next serving floor is two.
So it has to go down from 5 to 2.
Serving floor is two okay and current floor is five.
So it now moved down elevator one from five.
Coming down 432 it reached till two.
And then so two it has to fulfill right.
So it reached till two.
Now it will open the door.
Open the door at the elevator one.
Okay.
Now it has accepted any other request here if you see I think.
Yes.
Opening the door of an elevator.
Closing the door of elevator.
And it started moving to first position.
So yeah, there is one first position also.
Right.
Press down.
So who has accepted this one?
I think we missed that serving flow to request request detail.
So where is the first one.
So destination 43541.
So destination floor one is also accepted by elevator one itself.
Right.
So it will also get fulfilled here.
So I think you got it right.
So it's working as expected.
Like whatever the algorithm we have implemented here.
Nearest elevator strategy okay.
So And based on the look algorithm which we have implemented, it's working as expected.
So if you have any doubt you can go through this code I will share the git link.
Okay.
You can go through it, code it once.
Change the algorithm if you want.
Play with the data okay.
Understand the design okay.
So many times what happen is it's a we can also have like okay if different classes, different controllers
or different design you come up with that.
That's also fine okay.
So it's not should be like this design is only correct one.
So there could be gaps in this.
So come up with different design if you want.
The main focus should be can we design a scalable one and functional one okay.
So I hope with this elevated design lot of doubts would get cleared.
If there is still any, let me know.
We can discuss into the comment section by.

--- LLD of Car Rental System ---

Other side.
Welcome back.
And today in low level design we are going to design the car rental system okay.
So let's start without wasting any time because we have to do complete coding also okay so let's understand
the flow first.
So when.
So let's say we have a certain system okay.
Car rental system.
And when any user comes in.
So what's the flow.
So user comes to a car rental system.
Select a particular store based on its location.
So first it do some filtering okay.
It put its location and filter the particular store based on its location.
Search for vehicles based on vehicle type and its availability.
So what does it mean.
Is that okay, once you have selected the store of a particular location, let's say store one, you
have selected which is present into, let's say, city.
City.
And this is the area one.
Okay.
Particular store you have selected.
Now in this store there are many vehicles you have to filter out now what vehicle type you are interested.
So here if you see even the question says that car rental system.
But we have to design our system that in future we should be able to handle four Wheeler, two Wheeler,
etc..
Okay, so we should be able to filter what type of vehicle you wanted.
You wanted four Wheeler okay.
And its availability like you want for day let's say on you want to book for second and third let's
say December okay.
So all the vehicles available on these two dates should get listed down okay.
So now after selecting a particular store you have searched for the vehicle.
Now reserve the schedule vehicle now.
Whatever the vehicle you are interested in, whatever the selected vehicle, you have to reserve it.
Okay.
And while reserving it, you need.
We need to handle concurrency as two user should not be able to reserve the same vehicle for the same
time.
Okay.
So yes, we found the vehicle what we wanted.
We have reserve it now.
We will start the trip.
We will submit the vehicle and when submitting the bill will be generated against the reservation.
Okay.
So whatever the reservation we have done, the bill will be generated against that.
And after that, a payment will be made against the bill.
So this is very simplified flow for a car rental system.
But you can discuss with an interviewer.
Does he or she is in line with this flow or not, because the car rental system is very huge.
But we will be designing only this flow itself.
Okay, so based on the above understanding, we identify below major objects involved in this design.
So all these are marked yellow like user is an object store vehicle reserve bill payment.
These are all different objects.
While gathering the requirement and gathering the flow, understanding the flow, we listed down the
major objects we identified.
Okay.
So as I mentioned earlier, also that object which thing can be considered as an object?
Object has two things property and behavior.
Anything which has these two things properties means like your which like what is the color of this
object?
This is just an example okay.
This is a property okay.
Similarly behavior is what it will do.
Like methods any function it can do.
So any object which has this two things can be considered as an object.
So let's start the UML based on this initial understanding of the flow and the objects which we have
identified.
So first is vehicle.
So here if you see that I have not created like a car or bike or anything, I have just created a vehicle
which has vehicle ID vehicle number.
What is the vehicle type.
So here vehicle type I have put four Wheeler or two Wheeler.
Similarly what is the daily rental cost for this vehicle and vehicle status whether it's available booked
or is it maintenance and the getter and setter.
So it's just a simple Pojo class.
Okay.
So very very simple Pojo class which has this property.
So here if you see the code we can add more details also.
So inside a product we call.
So if you want you can add company name model name km driven average CC number of seats.
So these are more information.
You can add it okay.
But for now since in our design we are not using this.
So I just kept very minimal one.
Now vehicle object is not intelligent, it's just a Pojo.
We need some other intelligent object which can manage vehicle inventory like maintaining the overall
vehicle list, maintaining booked vehicle list, add vehicle, remove vehicle check for vehicle availability.
So this vehicle class this just a Pojo.
It's not smart enough.
So we need something else which can handle the list.
And that's where Vehicle Inventory Manager comes into the picture.
And each store has their own inventory manager.
So inventory vehicle inventory manager I have kept this class.
So this we have already seen.
So I have created a vehicle inventory manager.
So this has a list of vehicle or here I have kept a map.
Concurrent map.
So this map has like a vehicle ID.
What's this vehicle.
So it has all the vehicles which is present.
Okay.
And each store has its own vehicle inventory manager.
So if you have ten stores, ten stores will have their own vehicle inventory manager.
Correct.
So that's why this is not a singleton class.
Don't make it singleton One for each store.
They will have their own vehicle inventory manager.
And for now I have just very simplistic map like vehicle ID vehicle which is contain all the vehicles
present and we have a method add vehicle, get vehicle.
You can remove vehicle.
All this functionality which can be done inside a vehicle inventory manager.
This class will get more complex when we move into reservation, but for now understand why we have
added Vehicle Inventory Manager because in a system so many vehicles can be present, right?
So we need someone to manage those.
Then let's come to reservation.
Reservation does not need full vehicle and user details so we can keep their IDs itself in it.
So what does reservation do.
Right.
So here if you see you have a vehicle, you have a vehicle inventory manager.
So reservation if you focus on this reservation part.
What does reservation will have.
Reservation will have a reservation ID vehicle ID against which the reservation is made.
User ID which user has made the reservation?
Okay.
So here we have a user and I have a user ID.
So I just kept user id.
I don't add the whole object because you don't need full object of the user.
Similarly I just kept vehicle id, I don't need full vehicle object here.
Vehicle object has so many things kilometer driven and all the things I don't need all of those things.
I just put vehicle ID.
If more details are required I will fetch it out from that vehicle ID, I will make a query and fetch
it out.
Okay, so for reservation what I need is vehicle ID against which the reservation is made.
Who made it user id from and two.
This is the date period within which this vehicle is booked.
Reservation type.
Reservation type is like whether I am using daily basis or hourly basis.
Okay, this will help us in our billing whether I'm charging for the daily or whether I'm charging hourly.
So what's the reservation type reservation status, whether it's scheduled, whether it's going on in
use, completed, cancelled, what's the status of the reservation and the getter and setter?
Very simple.
Okay.
So now what objects we have seen we have seen vehicle.
We have an inventory which is nothing but currently a list of vehicle managing the list of vehicle.
We have a reservation and user.
Now reservation is also not a smart enough to handle capabilities like maintaining the list of reservation
we in a store there can be 100 of reservation.
And this is just one Pojo, one represent one reservation, but we can have 100 of reservation, right?
Creation of reservation.
Cancellation of reservation.
Removing the reservation.
Who will handle that?
That's where reservation Manager comes into the picture.
And also this store has its own.
Every store has their own reservation manager.
So that's where I introduce reservation manager.
So store also has this store also has reservation manager.
Also store has vehicle inventory manager.
Now here if you see reservation manager it has generally what we have is we keep list of or you can
say that map of list of whatever you want map of let's say ID which is nothing but a reservation ID
and the reservation.
So we can have multiple entries into this map.
Okay.
But here what I have done is I have taken out this map into reservation repository.
Why?
You will get to know in just a few minutes why I have taken out this.
Info.
List of reservation into a repository.
Okay, this I have done to remove the circular dependency.
I will just going to tell now.
Okay, so reservation manager has two things.
One is it has relationship with this vehicle inventory manager.
And also it has relationship with this reservation repository.
Why it has a dependency with vehicle inventory manager.
because whenever you make any reservation, you have to update the vehicle status.
Also, vehicle status is whether it's booked or when the reservation is completed or cancelled.
You should make it available also so it can't directly update vehicle right?
So it talk with Vehicle Inventory Manager and ask them that hey this is the vehicle update its status
also.
So managing the vehicle is not the task of reservation.
It will ask the inventory manager a vehicle inventory manager that will change the vehicle status.
Similarly reservation rap repo.
This one just has this list of reservation.
All it maintaining all the reservation.
So you can, uh, add you save or you can say that you can add a reservation into this map.
You can find it.
Any particular reservation ID you can remove this.
Okay.
So this reservation manager has this dependency.
And whenever it will have to do fine, it will call this whenever it has to remove it will call reservation
repository itself okay.
And reservation repository has reservation.
Now you might be thinking hey Shreyansh, why we need reservation repository?
Why can't this map I put into reservation manager itself like we did into vehicle inventory manager?
It has this map also.
Okay, so the reason I created this is I told you that to remove the circular dependency, why there
is a circular dependency.
See this one.
So we have one requirement.
Create a reservation should only be successful when vehicle is available on that particular date.
So we need to maintain some information about the vehicle.
Okay.
so what's the right place to hold that?
Vehicles booking information.
That's vehicle inventory manager.
It holds all the information about the vehicle.
So here if you see that I have maintaining this vehicle booking ID.
So this is nothing but a again a concurrent map because see many threads might be touching this.
So it's better to have a concurrent map so that because we are doing in-memory everything we are handling
in memory, there is no DB currently.
So many threads might be touching this, so it's always safe to use whatever the collections you are
using.
Make it concurrent.
So now here if you see I have have a map of vehicle ID and the list of reservations ID, so one vehicle
can have multiple reservation for this one.
Reservation one.
Reservation two.
Reservation three vehicle two have multiple reservation.
Reservation four.
Reservation five.
So this is for let's say one and two.
This is for.
For one and 2nd December.
This is for three and 4th December.
This is for five and 6th December.
Like this.
For one and 2nd December.
Equal to.
So this reservation has this information right booked from book to everything.
So I don't need like vehicle one.
It is book from 1 to 2 okay.
So if I only keep reservation ID itself from there I can take out the information for the reservation.
I can take out what the date it is booked from to till.
So that's where I have put vehicle ID versus the list of reservation IDs, because this will help me
to find out the available vehicles on a particular day, which user has selected.
Okay.
And now you.
When you have a reservation ID using this reservation ID, you have to fetch the particular reservation.
And if reservation manager holds the this this all reservation info then it need to it need to have
a dependency of for this reservation manager.
And then there would be a circular dependency.
So what I have done is I have introduced a reservation repository which has this all the reservation.
Okay.
And now reservation manager is calling it.
And even vehicle inventory manager has dependency on it.
So with this we able to break the circular dependency.
And this is totally fine.
Okay.
Always take out like what can be like, uh, independent task.
So this is an independent task.
You can find you can delete, you can manage everything.
So this is can be an independent.
Okay.
Now multiple objects can use it.
And with that we able to successfully break the circular dependency.
Okay.
Now here if you see the vehicle inventory manager I told you is maintaining a list of vehicles booking
IDs, you can say that against a vehicle using this map.
And it also has the reservation repository dependency because we have a reservation ID against a vehicle.
So using this reservation ID we have to fetch the find by ID we have to fetch the reservation.
Now we have method like get available vehicles okay.
Then we have like release vehicle book vehicle is available.
All these things we have introduced because in the reservation manager when you create a reservation
Okay.
You not only create one new reservation, but you also have to update the status of the vehicle.
So that's why book vehicle.
Okay.
So when you book a vehicle it will put update this map reservation booking ID map.
Also it will change the status also.
Similarly when you cancel the reservation.
So here release vehicle I have introduced so that you will release it from this booking map.
That yes this reservation is removed now.
And also you have to change the status of the vehicle.
Now that it is available okay.
Similarly, when you start the trip or complete the trip or you remove it.
So if there is any impact goes on the vehicle.
Those methods I have introduced.
Okay.
Till now it is clear.
Now we have one more thing to handle, which is concurrency.
So two important things to consider while handling the concurrency.
First, the collection, like a list of vehicle list of booked vehicle should be able to handle concurrency.
I have already done that.
All the collections which I have used, I have made concurrent because multiple thread might be accessing
it, reading it, writing it.
So I want it to be safe.
Okay.
Since we are not using DB, we are in the low level design.
We always do in memory, so it's better to have your collection concurrent so that underlying data structure
should be consistent when multiple threads try to read and write in it.
Second, very important regarding this question.
Neat capability to put lock per vehicle.
This is needed to achieve atomicity.
Why you need to put lock per vehicle.
Understand this with this scenario.
Assume both thread one and thread two are running concurrently.
So thread one what it will do.
Check for vehicle availability.
Touches the list of vehicle.
So here I have vehicle one.
Vehicle two.
So thread one comes okay.
And also in parallel thread to come that is also checked for vehicle availability.
Thread two.
Hey, for 1st December I am looking for a vehicle availability.
So this system returns.
Yes, vehicle one is available to both okay.
And both selected are same vehicle okay.
Now they both try to reserve this particular vehicle V1.
So when they both try to reserve it.
See our collection is concurrent means only one operation at a time can do.
Make changes in it.
Okay, but it will not stop any duplicate.
Things which you are trying to do.
So here, if you see first thread one, try to reserve it.
Okay.
So it would be able to do the reservation.
So we call one.
It will put.
Yeah.
Reservation one.
So it will create a new reservation and insert it.
Okay.
While thread two might be waiting because it's a concurrent map because it's a concurrent map let's
say.
Okay.
And it also want to add it and it's a concurrent.
So thread two might be waiting.
And once it is done and when thread two get a chance it will also try to reserve the same vehicle.
And it will create its own reservation.
So it will add reservation two also.
So even so for the same vehicle two reservation is created for the same day 1st December.
Okay.
Which cause a problem.
So you understand that just by using the concurrent map is not sufficient in this scenario.
So we have to handle this concurrency in this scenario by putting a lock.
How.
Now let's say again the same system we have vehicle one.
Vehicle two.
Two threads comes into this place.
Thread one.
Thread two.
Both look for 1st December.
Hey any vehicle available for 1st December?
It says that system says yeah V one.
And both select a particular vehicle that okay.
Yes V1I wanted to go with.
Now here if you see we have to put lock on V one.
This is important.
Now anyone who picks a particular vehicle I put a lock.
Now who put a lock.
Let's say thread One has acquired the lock thread, one has acquired the lock now.
So now it will check for availability again.
Hey, is this again available?
Is this available?
Yes, currently it is available.
There is in the map against the vehicle.
There is no reservation for that particular day.
So it's available.
It will try to resolve this particular vehicle.
Update the list of books.
So it creates a new reservation and update this list.
And then it releases the lock.
The lock is released.
So lock is removed.
Now the thread two will go.
It will put a lock on V1.
So now who will take a lock?
Thread two.
Now again it's check for availability.
Hey, is it available again?
So see now two times we are checking the availability.
First it take out like what?
All the vehicles are available for a particular day.
Okay.
And After taking a lock it again checking because it might be updated by some other thread while it
is waiting on the law.
Okay, so it's checking for the availability.
So now here for this vehicle one already reservation one is present for the 1st December.
So check for availability would fail.
It will return false and it would not be able to create a new reservation.
So we need vehicle wise locking functionality.
And that's where in the vehicle inventory manager I have added this locking behavior.
So in Java I have already covered this Rentrant lock.
If you haven't seen it kindly check it out.
So here if you see that integer comma.
So this is the map like integer would be here I would be using vehicle ID and this is just a lock object
okay.
So for this vehicle this is the object where they will lock it.
Unlock it.
You can say that okay.
And I would be using this as a weaker lock.
And I have introduced one method.
Uh here put vehicle, put lock on vehicle.
So whatever the vehicle ID you will give in this one I will put it like vehicle one.
I have put a lock and any other one which want to acquire a lock.
They will check this.
Hey is there any lock present?
Then it will have to wait.
Okay.
So I will show you like how we are using the lock here.
So let's let's first check vehicle inventory manager.
So till here let's see the code first okay.
Very important one.
So vehicle we have already seen now vehicle inventory manager.
So here we have list of all vehicles like it's a currently a map.
So vehicle ID and vehicle so all the entries would be present.
The second is booking like a vehicle ID and it would be a list of reservation IDs.
Then I am using for this logging vehicle ID and the log object and the reservation repository.
So now here if you see the method which I have exposed is add vehicle, we can add a vehicle into the
list of vehicles.
New vehicle we are adding if we have to fetch any particular vehicle that also we can done from this
we can take out.
Now here if you see the log for vehicle.
What how I am putting a log on the vehicle.
Is that vehicle log put if absent.
So whenever this method is invoked what it does what it do is that on this vehicle log map against this
vehicle ID it create a log object okay.
So its task is to add an entry into this log map for a particular vehicle ID.
Now this is important.
Availability check is available or not.
So how I am checking so is available what information I am getting vehicle ID and this from to two.
Whether this vehicle is available between these two dates or not.
So vehicle one is present between let's say 2nd December to 4th December.
You need to check okay.
So what I am doing is first taking out a vehicle information from the vehicles map.
Okay.
I have only ID from this ID I take out the vehicle object.
Okay.
If the vehicle status is maintenance, I am returning false that it is not available.
Just a basic validation I have added.
Okay.
And here now I am checking the booking IDs.
What?
All the reservation happened against this vehicle.
So vehicle booking ideas get.
Vehicle.
I will get a list of reservations.
Okay.
Now I have to iterate over each reservation because now let's say vehicle one has three reservation.
Reservation one, reservation two, reservation three.
And I have to check each reservation because reservation has from and two information.
So I need to check that.
Is there any overlapping what user has selected and what's already reservation is from.
So I do a simple thing that see this is if this is the thing it's two and this is from this is fine
okay.
Let's say this is R1 R1 two and this is new new R new reservation.
And this is new reservation.
So when new reservation form is after the two of reservation one that is also fine.
Or this scenario.
The reservation one from is after the new reservation two.
That is also fine.
They are not overlapping any other scenario.
It would be overlap means you can't book for this date.
So that's what I am doing.
So I have a reservation ID.
I am using the repository to fetch the reservation.
I found the reservation and from the reservation I take out this book from book till information and
I'm checking the overlapping.
So this overlapping method I have put into a different class just for.
So consider this as a helper class.
Okay.
So it is just checking the same thing which I told you.
If two is before the from which the user has selected and the from is after the two, the same thing,
the same logic, which I have told you.
So both this scenario are okay.
Apart from anything, there is an overlap.
Okay.
So if there is an overlap return false means it is not available.
Otherwise it is available.
So this is the available method we have added.
Now we have a reservation method.
So reservation method I have told you that first we have to put a lock.
So that's what I am doing.
So whatever the vehicle ID you want to reserve.
So this has a reservation ID from two.
So now here if you see.
This create reservation is invoked.
So it has created a reservation.
Now it has to update the book vehicle of the inventory manager because it has to update the status.
Okay.
So that's why.
So we already have a reservation ID, we have a vehicle ID and from to two we have to book it.
So what I'm doing is I'm first locking the vehicle.
So here I put a lock on the vehicle.
So lock for vehicle.
What it will do is on against this vehicle ID it put an entry into the vehicle lock.
Cool.
Now I am putting lock dot lock.
So that object is now locked.
You can say that that lock object is now locked.
Now I am checking is available again I am checking for the availability.
Again is available the method I have already explained you.
If it is not available we return false here.
If it is not available, we don't go and create a reservation or try to book it again.
You can say that.
Okay, so here if you see one question might have come to you.
Hey reservation is not created already.
We got the reservation ID.
So here, if you see what I have done, is I only created an ID first, then I am trying to reserve
it.
And then later I am creating a reservation when it able to reserve it properly.
If in this check, check for availability.
If it is not available I am returning vehicle not available for selected date.
Okay and then I am creating the reservation.
So first I am creating just an reservation ID and try to reserve it.
Okay so.
I put a lock.
I check it is available.
If it is available, return true.
Uh means proceed further.
If it is not available, return from here itself.
Now if it is available, what I am doing is inside a booking.
IDs.
Okay.
Inside this booking IDs, we are adding an entry that hey, this is the vehicle and this is the reservation
ID you need to add.
And I'm changing the status of vehicle to booked and return true from here and in the finally unlock
it.
And finally we have to unlock release the lock.
Okay, so this is the reserve which exactly doing this thing.
Then we have release for release.
Also you have to do the same thing.
You have to take a lock because you are working on a vehicle.
Right.
So you have to acquire a lock first.
Then from the booking IDs, you have to take out all the reservation against it and remove that particular
reservation from its list.
Okay.
And you need to change the status of the vehicle to available.
And after that change it to unlock.
Very simple.
And similarly we have get available vehicles because initially uh user might need that.
Hey, give me a vehicle type two Wheeler four Wheeler and it should be available from this to this date.
So this is just a vehicle search functionality which would be used by user to filter out a vehicle.
Okay.
Initially we told right.
It will ask uh, let's say thread one or user one will ask hey for this date what all the vehicles are
available so that this method is does the same thing.
So what it will do is it will take out all the vehicles and one by one is check like okay, whatever
the vehicle type user has asked for two Wheeler, four Wheeler, it should match that vehicle.
And also I'm calling is available method that whatever the date user has provided is it available within
that date.
If it is true then only filter out so it will filter out only vehicles which match the vehicle type
and which has availability within this date.
So here, if you are not aware of the stream I have already covered into the Java.
Kindly check it out.
So this is our vehicle Inventory manager.
Okay, now see a reservation.
Reservation class is simple like reservation ID, vehicle ID, user ID, book from book two.
Like we have seen just a Pojo getter, setter, reservation manager.
Here if you see that has reservation repository, reservation repository has nothing but a kind of maintaining
the list of all the vehicles.
Okay, so here I'm using map, uh, reservation ID versus reservation.
So here you can add you can find by ID you can remove you can get all all this thing we can do.
And then in the reservation manager I have inventory manager okay.
Now here if you see what all things I have like it expose get method because anybody has to fetch a
particular reservation detail, they will call manager itself.
They don't directly talk to repository.
Let's say okay.
So you can call this find by ID.
It can fetch the details.
Create reservation.
Now when you create a reservation what information I got I got vehicle ID, I got user from two.
And the reservation type okay.
Reservation type is whether you want hourly or daily.
So first I am just taking out a ID reservation ID and then I try to invoke the inventory.
Hey, try to book it because multiple threads might be able to reserve it.
Multiple user try to reserve it.
So that's why I don't create reservation.
First I create only ID and then try to reserve the vehicle if vehicle is able to reserve properly.
This method we have already seen where I put a lock.
If vehicle is resolved properly then I am creating a reservation.
The same ID I used.
Okay and save it.
I call the repository and add the reservation.
Similarly cancel reservation.
What it has to be done.
Like whatever the reservation idea, I have to cancel.
I will call a repository, get a reservation.
Okay, now I will change the reservation status to cancel.
And also I will invoke the inventory to release it.
So in this release it will put a lock and then it will change the it will remove from the booking list
and it will make it to available and finally unlock it.
Okay.
And after that reservation repository will remove from the reservation ID.
Once the inventory is properly released, we can remove the reservation from the repository also.
Make sense?
So now we have a strip.
So strip I have just added like okay, when the reservation ID uh, we need to start the trip, we got
a reservation.
We change the reservation status to induce that reservation is in use.
Submit vehicle now here.
If you see when you submit the vehicle what all things happening, you find out the reservation.
From this reservation ID, you change the reservation status to completed.
And also you have to release the vehicle reservation is completed.
Right.
Vehicle is submitted.
So you have to release the vehicle also.
In that case also we have to release the vehicle.
So Reservation manager hold all these things.
I hope you understand concurrency part.
That is very important in this one.
Okay.
And now we have Bill.
So Bill holds info like reservation ID against the bill is associated with.
And we don't need full object.
We don't.
You don't want to keep full resolution object inside a bill.
Resolution has lot of information.
You don't need it.
You only want resolution ID.
So that's what I am doing.
So I created a bill.
I have only bill ID, reservation ID bill amount and whether the bill is paid or not and its getter
setter.
So it's nothing but a simple Pojo.
That's all minimal information you wanted.
And this bill is not smart enough.
So here that's why I created a bill manager which maintains the all the bills collection.
Okay.
So Bill ID and I have a bill against it.
So I have multiple entries like this.
And also to generate the bill method, instead of just providing an implementation into the bill manager
we can have a billing strategy.
So that's why it has a dependency on the billing strategy.
So here I have used a strategy design pattern.
So billing strategy could be hourly billing strategy daily billing strategy.
They might have a different method to generate a bill calculation.
Calculation part would be different right.
So that logic resides into the specific strategy implementation.
Okay so I have just added the billing strategy.
What are the billing strategy.
We will use we will use that specific class okay.
Now here if you see that this billing strategy has dependency on this vehicle inventory manager okay.
So here Bill is bill has this reservation ID okay.
When we get hey create a bill I get a reservation.
Hey, for this reservation you have to create a bill.
See what I am doing.
So, bill manager.
So generate bill is the one which get invoked by the store by store will create that hey create a bill
for this reservation so they will pass me the reservation.
Now I will invoke this generate bill okay.
Whether hourly or daily they will have their own logic.
So here if you see that currently I have only daily billing strategy, pass the reservation.
Now they will have their own computation logic.
So what I am doing here is I am creating a bill I am just using from this reservation.
I am just putting reservation ID, I don't keep the full object, so I just put reservation ID now to
compute this total bill amount.
I need this info in the vehicle.
I have this daily rental cost right which is interested by daily billing strategy.
They need to access this information how they can do.
They have only reservation object which is coming.
So from the reservation we can take out a vehicle ID reservation, has vehicle reservation, has this
vehicle ID and I have put a dependency here.
Vehicle inventory manager dependency.
It has the dependency here.
So I am using this inventory manager.
And I will call this find by vehicle.
Get vehicle with the ID.
So I will pass the ID I will get a vehicle.
And from this vehicle I will get a daily cost.
Okay.
And from this reservation how long this how many days this vehicle has been used?
I will use it to compute the total.
Okay.
So you got Bill, bill manager and the bill strategy purpose.
Okay.
So similarly I am doing for the payment very very similar to bill payment, hold info like bill ID it
doesn't need complete bill.
So that's why I have a payment.
Payment ID it has only bill ID and how much amount is paid.
What is the payment mode.
Okay.
So amount paid is because like say for one bill multiple payments can be made.
So currently I have not handled multiple payment scenario but I have put amount paid.
Uh that can be handled in payment manager.
We can easily do that.
We can have a collection also from or from this collection also we can do that.
So we have a payment which only has bill ID.
And this payment manager okay which is called by a store itself a store calls the payment manager it
it says that hey make a payment for this bill so it will pass the bill also.
So now here if you see payment manager.
So make payment.
It will pass a bill and this payment amount for.
For now assume that this payment amount is equivalent to whatever the bill has the amount, but it is
possible that this payment amount could be lesser than this.
So we need to introduce that a partial paid scenario and all this.
But for simplicity payment amount would here would always be equals to whatever the bill amount is.
So now I have a bill.
Now make payment I am using payment strategy again strategy design pattern I'm using because cash payment
strategy would be different UPI payment strategy would be different.
So whatever the strategy you will customer will choose to make a payment.
The control will goes to there and it will process the payment.
So here I am creating a payment okay.
So here I'm creating a payment.
And I am putting payment ID bill ID payment amount payment mode.
Because this is UPI payment strategy.
So.
So it's, uh, putting up more payment mode, UPI and it change bill status to paid.
So I am not storing the complete bill, only bill ID.
Okay, so you got it.
How?
Payment, payment manager and payment strategies used here in the system.
Now I have store.
So we have already uh our store is ready.
So store has bill manager.
The store has payment manager.
Store has reservation manager store has vehicle inventory manager.
So store has all this thing and store has its store ID and location.
So whenever any let's say you want to create reservation, it will use a reservation manager and pass
the responsibility that hey you create reservation whenever it is stored.
Need to generate a bill.
It will use a bill manager and pass the responsibility.
That you generate a bill.
Okay, so you can say that it's more of an orchestrator to drive the complete flow.
Now the last vehicle rental system because we can have many stores.
Also we don't have one store.
So vehicle rental system can have list of stores.
So we have let's say our website vehicle rental system.
We can have onboard many stores in it.
And on this website we can have many users also.
So I have stores I have users.
And it will whichever particular store is selected okay.
Let's say at initially user comes that hey give me a store of this location one okay.
It has a list of store and the store has this location information.
It will expose certain method that they filter out the store, return it, and now once it has the store
object, we can directly do all these things.
Okay.
So it has a list of store and it has a list of users.
So this is our complete car rental system.
Check it out again and I will show you the demo here.
So first here if you see the demo part if I run this.
So it is doing what we are asking it to do okay.
So here if you see first thing which I am saying is I created a rental system over.
Let's say this this object I am creating.
I am first adding a store location.
So this is just a location object store location.
I am creating a new store, a store ID and this is the store location.
So I have created a store one and added the store into the rental system.
So store is added create user.
So I'm creating two user user one user two add it into the rental system.
So now our rental system also has two users.
Also in a particular store I am adding certain inventory.
So I added vehicle one, I added vehicle two.
And in the store one inventory I added it okay.
Store one inventory I added it.
Now here if you see when store one inventory.
So here if you see get inventory it will return me the inventory manager okay.
And using that inventory manager I am adding the vehicle.
So store is not adding it.
Store just uses the inventory manager and add it.
Or even we can have simply add inventory we can have method like.
Add inventory let's say.
And here I have let's say vehicle vehicle one.
And internally I can call let's say get inventory.
I will get an inventory manager.
Inventory manager and use that inventory manager to store this thing.
Add vehicle okay.
So still that is okay because store is not adding the inventory.
It just using inventory manager to add the vehicle.
So I have added the vehicle.
So this is mostly a setup.
So we have added a store.
We have added a users into the system and within a store I have added the vehicles.
So this is all done now.
The fourth step which I am doing is user select a particular store, let's say rental system.
I'm getting a store.
This one user selected this.
Hey, I want this 1001 store okay.
And it put like from this to this date I want to book the vehicle.
So first thing what I am doing is from this store I am taking out all the available vehicles, all the
available vehicles.
So that's what I am doing here is now so selected store whatever the user has selected the store, get
the vehicle.
User is interested in four Wheeler and this to this date from to two date.
Now you know that when you do selected store get vehicle it will use inventory manager and it ask it.
Hey get the available vehicles and it will invoke this method.
It will list iterate through all the vehicles, filter out based on the type and the date whether it
is available or not.
So it's using is available method which we have already seen.
So all the available vehicles would be listed.
Okay.
Now once the vehicle available vehicles we have, what it will do is it will try to create a reservation
against one vehicle.
So it will use selected store create reservation vehicle ID which vehicle it is interested in.
So this is currently you can say that testing flow right.
So I have hardcoded that okay vehicle one I am interested.
User one is trying to do the booking from this date to this reservation.
I am interested in daily.
So create reservation.
What it will use is it will store use the reservation manager.
Pass it to create reservation.
So what it will do is it will first get a reservation ID that's all.
And it will try to book the inventory.
And in the inventory reserve it will put a lock check is available.
It will add an entry to the booking Map, it will change the status of the vehicle and then after that
it will unlock it.
Once it's able to properly resolve the inventory, it will create a reservation and store it.
Okay, so once the reservation is made, user will start the trip.
So it will call selected store start trip and it will just pass the reservation ID that.
Yes, I want to start the strip and store.
Simply use the reservation manager and it will change the status of the reservation.
Similarly, when it submit the vehicle, it will call the submit vehicle method which is present into
the selected store store.
Just pass this request to the reservation manager.
Reservation manager reservation ID found out the reservation changes status to completed.
Try to release the vehicle inventory by calling the inventory dot release and.
once the vehicle is released properly here, if you see now the vehicle is submitted means it is released.
Okay, now I am making a payment bill is generated so selected store whatever the store.
It will say that hey generate a bill.
And here this is the reservation ID and I am using a daily billing strategy okay.
And it passed the inventory of the selected store.
So generate bill I have already said that hey this is the reservation ID use this billing strategy.
Okay.
Because billing strategy we are deciding on runtime that okay you want a billing hourly or daily whatever
you want.
So Reservation manager will first based on the reservation ID okay, I got a reservation and now I am
just asking the bill.
Hey, this is the billing strategy user is interested in.
So update yourself and asking the bill manager that generate a bill.
Okay, for this reservation now bill is generated I am making a payment so selected store I am saying
hey make a payment for this bill.
And this is the strategy I am interested in UPI payment strategy.
So again same thing like for this bill.
First I am using the payment manager set its payment strategy.
Like what user is trying to make a payment with using a payment manager to make a payment.
And I pass this bill and what the amount and if the payment is made successfully, I reservation I removing
it here now after making.
So after making the payment, I am removing the reservation.
I am not removing the reservation after just submitting the vehicle just because after payment only
I am removing the reservation.
So once the reservation remove is called.
So from the repository it would be removed.
And I'm just printing it.
So you will get this output.
So try it out.
Okay.
Go through this.
All the objects one by one.
Again I will share the git link.
Also I have already post all the code working code.
You can check it out and if there is any question let me know.
We can discuss further in the comment section.
But again, this is not a one single solution.
There can be many solution.
Okay, there can be better solution, better design.
But in low level design there is no one single solution.
Okay.
So if you can think of a different way of implementing this, that would is also totally fine okay.
Okay.
Any question let me know.
We can discuss further in comment section by.

--- Chain Of Responsibility Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

This site.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today we are going to do the chain of responsibility pattern which is a behavioral design.
Pattern means focus on how to objects communicate with each other okay.
So in this a request is passed through along a chain of handlers okay.
Each handler decide either to process the request or pass it to the next handler in the chain.
Understand this with this real life example, like you might be working in a company.
Okay, so where we have multiple you can say that locks level.
We have debug log level.
We have info log level, we have error log level.
And similarly we in future we can increase the chain.
We have a fatal log level.
Right.
And whenever a request let's say we want to log, we just say that we start from the first chain.
Understand this line that with this we pass the request to a chain of handler.
We just pass it to this chain.
Hey, then this will check.
Hey, can I handle this request or can I handle this log request?
If yes, then it will handle it and return it from here.
If no, then it will pass to the next handler in the chain.
Okay, then it will check.
Hey, can I handle this log request?
If yes, then no further processing will happen.
It will just process it and return it from here.
Otherwise it will pass the request to the next handler in the chain.
That's where it says that.
So it's a pattern that passes request along a chain of handler.
Each handler decides either to process or pass it to the next handler in the chain.
Okay.
And yeah, one real life example is you can say that atm.
So in this let's say understand the ATM example, real world would be let's say user need to withdraw,
let's say ₹50 okay.
And you have different handler, let's say ₹20 handler, ₹50 handler.
And then you have, let's say ₹100 handler.
Okay.
So now let's say that a request goes here.
Let's say user need to withdraw ₹50.
Can you handle it if, let's say if there is no sufficient ₹20 present, it will pass the request to
50.
Hey, can you handle it?
Okay, likewise.
So we will see that ATM example later.
Okay.
But this is just one example.
Like in what all scenarios.
Uh, you can take a hint that.
Yes chain of responsibility pattern we need to apply okay.
So let's try to implement this how we can implement this.
But here is the UML diagram if you see that.
So all this handlers okay we design it like so here we have an abstract handler okay.
And we have multiple Implementation for it like multiple child classes.
So we can have, let's say debug info.
Error fatal.
If you have in more handler you can add it.
So like let's say the individual handler debug info error and more.
Okay.
So after a debug also there is so this is debug is a log processor info is a log processor.
So these are is a relationship okay.
Also one important thing is that let's say the debug handler is not able to handle the request.
It need to forward the request to the next one.
So it will need to forward to the next handler.
So that's why it also has object of itself.
Has a relationship okay.
So see this with example.
It would be fully clear.
So I have an abstract class log processor okay.
Now here if you see that I also have one object to itself.
So it has has a relationship with itself.
Log processor.
Next log processor okay.
And then I have one method implemented here log message.
And here I have a level and the message which it comes okay.
So I have provided different levels.
So each one each logger will I will provide one level.
Let's say I will give it debug level which is one.
Then info as two error is three level.
And for some number I have given.
Okay.
Now here if you see whenever a log request comes.
So here whenever a log request comes hey log the request or this one whenever a request comes okay I
will check if level is matching or not because we need to know that.
Hey, can I handle this request or not?
You can have any logic, but for the very simplification Understanding.
This is how I am determining that I can handle the request or not if level matching.
So let's say that in this case user is passing log dot message and it is passing let's say level dot
debug.
Let's say okay.
Then it goes to this handler and it checks hey okay.
The message which user wants to log is of level debug.
Yes I can handle it.
And once I can handle it I will call the right method okay.
Now let's say user passes uh log dot message and passes the level info okay.
Now the request goes to because the request always goes from start of the chain itself.
It's not like directly jumping here.
It goes from the start of the chain.
So debug can I handle this, uh, level info.
No.
Then it forward it to next handler.
Hey, can I handle this level info?
Yes.
Then it will process the right.
Okay.
so now let's say that if it is fatal, if it is fatal info, what info will do?
It will can it handle this fatal level?
No.
It will forward the request to the next one.
So that's what I am doing.
If it is not able to handle this message then it will pass it to the next processor.
If next processor is not null, if next processor is not null, it will call its log message.
Hey, now your check.
Okay so here if you see I have this log processor I have multiple log processor debug info error log
fatal okay.
If in future you have more you can have more log processors.
Okay.
Now here if you see I have a constructor.
So whenever I will create a debug log processor I am creating a debug log processor.
I need to tell is there any next processor or not?
So whenever I create an object I will give two things level and the next log processor.
So now let's say the level which I give is let's say one okay.
And the next processor while creating an object I provide the object of the next one let's say info
one.
It's object I will provide okay.
And this level and next processor is present here.
So that will get set.
And the right method which is here abstracted.
It's like whatever like okay once you know that you can handle this request then how you want to write,
you can write it.
I'm just simply writing that debug message.
Similarly info log processor.
Info log processor also has this constructor level and log processor so level.
While creating a constructor we will decide what level we want to give.
Let's say level two okay.
And the next processor.
So if we want to assign it the next processor we can have it in the chain okay.
Similarly, let's say next one is error.
Next one.
Let's say that if you don't want to pass, we will pass null here ultimately.
So the next one would be null.
So we can create a chain like this.
So this is how I am doing that.
So first if you see I am going from the back, first I create a fatal lock processor object.
So this is fatal lock processor object.
And the fatal lock processor object it constructor take two thing level and the next processor.
So level I give is log processor dot fatal this one log processor dot fatal four okay.
So I give four and I pass null.
So means after that there is no more.
Next processor.
This is the end of the chain.
You can say that after this it's the end of the chain.
Now I have created error log processor.
Error log processor.
It's level I provided the error one which is three log processor, dot error is three and the next the
next processor.
I provided an object of this battle one, so I provided an object of this one.
Similarly for info, the level I've given two and in its next I provided the error one.
This one and similar for the debug.
The level I provided is one and it's the next processor.
I provided this info.
So here if you see it's a chain.
And always when we submit a request it's always from the front of the chain.
Okay.
Now let's say I am forwarding the request logger dot log message here logger dot log message.
So this logger is this front one which is nothing but a debug log processor.
So I'm calling its method log message.
And I'm passing this whatever the level user want to store this message let's say debug this is a debug
message.
So it will goes here first.
okay.
It will check a level equals to equals to level for debug.
What's the level one.
Okay.
And here I have also passes debug one only.
So yes it can handle it.
So it will properly call the right method which is this one.
So it will print this next time.
Let's say you are passing logger dot log message info.
This is info message.
So it will goes to the debug one.
It will check if level one equals to one what you pass.
So logger.info is two.
Will it be able to handle.
No.
So what it will do.
It will call the next log processor okay.
If it is not null it will call its log message.
So it will call info.
Next is here in the debugger is info object.
So it will call its log processor message.
And then again it will check level equals to equals to level.
Yes its level is two.
And what we passed also to yes it can handle.
So it will call the.
Right message.
And here it will print or handle whatever it like to print.
Okay.
So very very simple.
All you have to get the context from the interviewer that if you are not able to clear from the question,
clarify and see is the interviewer what he is trying to put?
Is it somewhere we have something like chain and where request always goes from a start and check one
by one by one at at any level.
If any handler able to handle it, then we are stopping here and returning to the user.
If that's the case, then chain of responsibility is the best pattern for it.
Okay, I hope this example is clear.
You can try it out.
Very very simple example.
And it's just like this UML diagram.
Very simple okay.
If you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss in further comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- LLD of Snake n Ladder Game ---

And they said welcome back.
And today in low level design we are going to cover the snake and ladder game.
So let's see, uh, about the game so that we are all on the same page.
So generally, we have all played this game in our childhood that there is a ten by ten board generally
numbered from, let's say, 1 to 100.
Okay.
And on this board, some on random positions, there are letters, let's say from 25 to this reaching
to 74.
And also there are snakes.
There can be more than one letter and more than one snake also.
So let's say 63 position the snake bites.
Then the player goes down back to let's say 12 and on later means that if a player comes to 25, it
can, uh, stare up.
It can move up this stair and reach to the 74.
So it's a jump.
Okay.
So generally a board we have of ten by ten matrix metrics, and there are multiple letters and multiple
snakes drawn on it.
Okay.
And it's a generally a two player game, but more players can also join the game and each player takes
the turn.
Alternatively.
And whichever player has the turn, they roll the dice and they move according to the number they got
on the dice.
So let's say a player one and player two are playing the game.
So it's a player one turn.
So player one turn, uh, roll the dice and let's say it got five.
So it moves forward five times like so from currently it's on position zero let's say.
So it will move to 12345.
So now player one reached till this step.
So next alternatively player two turns comes and then it will roll the dice.
And whatever the number comes okay.
Let's say it comes three.
So it moves forward three steps.
so player two will reach to three.
So this is our player two.
And they move like in a sequence manner generally five then 6789 1011.
Like this.
Okay.
So they have to reach till 100.
Now this Ladders and snakes comes into the picture.
Let's say uh, here in this case player one is at uh, there is a ladder at let's say six.
Assume that there is a ladder at six and its ending is at, let's say 33.
Okay.
Now player one turns come and roll the dice and it got one.
So it will move one step.
And when the player one move one step it reaches 2.6.
And this six there is a ladder.
So now it can jump to the end position of this letter which is 33 okay.
So similarly if the player reaches to a point where snake head is there, then it has to go down to
its tail ends where its tail ends.
Okay, so this is a game which continues till any one of the player finishes the game by reaching to
the hundred.
Okay, so understood the game like so.
The three main components.
Is this the dice okay.
The letters and the snake.
So I hope we are all in sync.
How generally this game is played okay, let's clarify the requirements.
When interviewer has given us this question, we understood the flow generally.
Now we have to gather the requirement okay.
We understood that it's a ten by ten board, but do we need it a configurable right.
It can be of n by n.
So if interviewer say yes then this is one of our requirement that we don't, uh.
We can.
It should be easily extensible.
Got it.
How many dice this can be played with?
One.
Two, three?
How many?
So if interviewer says that.
Yes.
Uh, you can go currently go with one.
But it should be scalable.
So that is one another requirement which got clarified okay.
So it should be scalable also means player can play with more than one dice.
Also how many number of players uh number and the place of snakes and ladders.
So interviewer will say that okay, during game setup you should be able to dynamically add them onto
the board.
So okay we we need to do that.
Also number of players we're gonna play two players.
But generally interviewer says that it should be scalable.
More than two players should be able to play the game.
And what's your winning strategy like uh any player wins the game should get finished.
Game should get finished.
So generally this is the requirement which we can come up with.
And we can clarify it with the interviewer based on our understanding about the game.
Okay.
Now based on the game flow and the requirement clarification, we can come up with the objects which
we can identify.
The first thing we can identify is the board.
Okay.
So this is will be our first object.
Okay.
The second object which we can easily come up with is like each player need.
How many dice.
Like so this dice is also one object.
Okay.
So dice is my another object.
Then we have number of players so the player can be one object.
Similarly snake and later could be one object.
And also one more thing is that.
So this board which we are saying that n by n array.
So let's say ten by ten.
So generally here if you see these are small small cells 0 to 9 let's say.
So total 100 cells okay.
So each cell has certain information about the jump.
You can say that whether it's a ladder or there is a snake.
So all we have to worry about start point okay.
And whatever the end point is there we need to take the player to that point okay.
So if this cell has a start point that is important.
So this cell need to store information about if there is a ladder on it or not okay.
Similarly if any cell has a snake so it has to has that information whether this cell has any snake
on it or not.
So we need one cell object also so we can discuss more about this cell.
But for now this cell I am representing this one okay.
Where we have like, uh, info about the leader or the snakes.
Cool.
Now before we jump to the UML, I will spend couple of more minutes on the board because I see lot of
engineers get confused here.
Why?
In UI the board is represented as generally like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, ten.
And after that, like this 1112.
And here it goes to 20.
Then starting from here 21 to 30 and then 31 to here, 40 likewise.
So it goes like this.
So generally it defined like this.
And similarly here Last 100.
Okay.
So here engineer complicates the thing that okay it's a zigzag matrix but it's not.
So here if you see after 910 the we have to move the player to let's say 11 only.
So they always go in sequence.
So it's not a zigzag form, it's just a way of representation at the UI.
So at the back end when we create a matrix let's say n by n, we don't have to handle this zigzag.
We don't have to handle this zigzag.
So it's not a zigzag.
So at UI it looks like players are moving in a zigzag form.
But actually if you see they are moving in a sequential like after based on the number, let's say on
a dice they got five and current position is eight.
So they will move the five steps nine, ten, 11, 12.
Like this.
Okay, so they are moving in sequence.
There is no zig zag.
So this is very simple.
So it's just a 2D matrix.
Okay.
And we can handle 2D matrix like zero to here we have nine 0 to 9.
And we have each cell we have different different cell.
Okay.
Either you want to give the numbering you can give the numbering.
Let's say this is 12349.
This is ten 1112.
Like this.
You can give the numbering but that also not required.
Let's say you are user is currently at position eight and it rolls the dice.
And it got certain what let's say three.
So its new position should be 11.
So if we have to calculate the cell what we can do is let's say it's ten by ten matrix.
So we should need to know the row and column of the cell.
So 11 divided by ten.
So it would be one.
So row is one column would be 11 by 11 mod ten.
So that's one.
So row one column one.
This would be your new position of the player okay.
So row one column one.
So this will be 11 would be nine.
So here we have a 1011 okay.
So it's very simple representation of a matrix.
And we don't even want to give the numbering like whatever the position would be let's say after 11
uh it rolls the dice and it got three.
So what is the next position for ten.
So you know that what row and column you have to take out 14 divided by ten.
So first row 14 mod ten for first row.
And fourth column is the cell which you are interested in.
So 12 then you have 1314 01234 first row fourth column is your 14th cell.
How UI is representing in a zigzag form?
That's uh, like we don't have to go into that the UI form.
But all we know is that from the way this game is played is in a sequential manner.
Like after each step, user proceed in a sequential manner eight, nine, ten, 11, 12.
Like this 20, 2122.
So there is no zigzag, actually, and that's where I see and, uh, engineer complicate the matrix,
uh, logic.
And they stuck at one point.
Okay.
So let's proceed further and I think things will get more clarified.
But this is just I wanted to highlight because this I have seen uh, some engineers make problem in
the interview.
Okay.
So let's start the UML.
So the first object is like a player.
We have come up with the player right.
So player we have information.
We can store information about name what is the player ID and what is the current position on the board.
Okay.
So for now you can also add name.
For now I have only ID and the current position.
So that's the code also.
Let's see.
So this is the player.
So in the player I have ID every player can have a unique ID.
And uh so generally ID is a string.
So we can give a name also to this one and the current position okay.
So current position let's say player generally lies within 0 to 99 only.
So that's the only window.
So let's say currently its position is uh 33.
Now its rolls a dice and it got six.
So its next position would be plus six okay.
So its new position would be 39.
So no matter what The player range is 0 to 99 only.
So what is current position?
We will use that.
Okay so this is the player object.
The second object is dice.
So here if you see in the dice I have one important thing is dice count.
So whenever I will create a dice object I am providing the dice count means with how many dice we are
playing the game because during requirement gathering interview has said that interviewer has said that
yeah, it should be scalable.
You can go with one, but it should be scalable.
So that's why whenever we will create a dice object, we will give one.
But if in future user player want to play with more than one dice, they should be able to do that.
So in dice count they can let's say put two okay.
And also I have added one method into the dice roll dice.
So in the roll dice, the logic is very simple.
Now let's say that, uh, if you have used only one dice, count means you are playing only with one
dice.
So you will just.
I am just hitting this random randomly.
I am finding a number between min and max.
Between 1 and 6, right?
Including the six.
Give me one random digit.
Okay.
If it is a only one, dice and return it.
But if it is more than one dice, let's say dice count.
You have given two.
So I am running the loop two times.
Okay.
And whatever the number I get each time, let's say first time the random you got three and second time
I got four.
So my total count which player can move is that seven.
So this is let's say dice one, dice two.
So two times I am running the loop.
So.
Got it.
Why why I use dice count.
So let's say if you are playing with the dice, you have to run this loop three times.
So let's say on the first dice you got three.
On the second dice you got four.
And on the dice three you got let's say two.
Okay.
So the total sum would be nine.
So you have to return nine so that player can move nine step forward.
So this is how I designed the dice so that it is scalable.
So till now we have two objects player and dice done.
Then snake and later object.
So now here focus that either we can have two classes one for snake, one for later.
So see the property of snake and later very important that say this is one one particular cell.
This is another particular cell.
This is a later this is 22.
And this is let's say 54 okay.
So Focus on.
Don't focus on the cell.
Focus on the leader.
So here we have a start point.
And here we have end point.
Similarly for snake there is a snake.
Okay.
And let's say it is uh 94.
And it is coming back to let's say 21 okay.
So it's a start point is here and end point is here.
So here, if you see both the object, either snake or leader has one thing in common that they have
a start position.
And end position leader also has a start position and end position.
So only differ is that in the leader, start position is a smaller position and the end is higher.
So because when the player reaches this point it goes up, start is lower and end is higher position.
But in snake start is higher position and end is lower position okay.
That's the only difference.
But their class structure is very similar.
Start position and end position.
So why we need two objects?
Why can't we have a simply create one jump object.
Okay so that's what I did.
So I created one jump object.
And it has this start position and end position.
That's all.
See for us for a player point of view it's just a jump whether you are jumping higher or jumping lower.
Okay.
If it is a leader okay.
If it's a leader, then whatever the end position is, you are moving the player or you are jumping
making the player jump to that higher position.
If it's a snake, we don't care.
Like if this cell has certain, uh, start end position.
So if this is the start position where currently the player has, then whatever the end position is,
I need to jump the user or player to that position, whether it's a high or bottom, we don't know.
Okay.
And all you can say that we don't know means we don't care.
It's just a jump.
Okay, you got it.
What I'm trying to say, let's say the player is at this position.
22 player comes to this position now, and this cell has certain info that this is the start and this
is the end.
There is certain jump and this is the start.
This is the end.
Now player one just see that okay.
If there is any jump associated with this cell, whatever the end position is I need to go there okay.
Now if this end position is higher or lower how do we care.
Like if it's a later it goes higher position.
If it's a snake, whatever the end position is, the player one should goes to that one okay.
So all we interested in start and end position that we need to make the player jump to that end position.
Whether that position is higher or lower, we don't care.
Okay, so that's why I used only one object jump instead of two snake and later.
Okay.
So that is clear.
Like why instead of Snake and ladder we have only one jump.
Now another object is sell.
I already mentioned that in a board.
So this board is of ten by ten matrix.
Of what?
Ten by ten of what?
So ten by ten of this particular cell.
Okay.
And this cell has certain information.
Information like whether there are any jump object is there or not, whether any jump there or not.
So now here, if you notice that I am not putting that hey later is there.
Hey, snake is there because we don't care.
Now I only associate that this cell has certain jump and the jump has a start and end position.
So yes, this is the start position of the jump.
Okay, so whatever the cell we have now let's say that jump is, uh, jump start point.
Start point is 53 and end point is 12.
We know that it's a snake because from high it's going to the bottom.
But I mentioned you that when we are proceeding with the game at the back end.
So see it's just a representation in the UI that it's a snake.
But at a back end, if you see it's just a jump from this position, you are jumping lower.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that if this is the jump position, we just need to assign up to a particular
cell to this jump okay.
And this board has a matrix ten by ten matrix.
So we know that start position is 53.
So if we need to find out the cell we can easily find it 5310 by ten matrix.
Right.
So fifth row 53 mod ten third column okay.
So 012345.
Likewise it goes similarly the column.
So we can easily determine the cell where we have to put this jump object because at the jump this cell.
Where like this jump object we need to associate with cell where the start point is.
There means at this point at this cell this jump is applicable.
And whenever the player comes to this point, this cell, it need to jump to this end point.
Okay.
So that's why we are using the jump start point.
And we will determine which cell contains that jump.
And we can easily do with this.
When we will see the example you will get more clear.
So here in the cell what we are having is each cell has jump.
Let's say this cell has nothing.
So jump would be null.
Okay.
So if this cell has certain jump associated whether snake or letter we don't care.
So it would have a jump object associated.
Okay.
So our cell is also created.
And here you know that cell has jump.
So it has a relationship with the jump.
Cool.
Now our next is bored.
So bored is nothing but a n by N cells.
So I have created a bored class which has cells that is nothing but a 2D representation 2D array of
cell.
So it's an n by n.
So that's why we don't want to hard code ten by ten.
Okay.
So whenever we create an object of bored.
So here if you see if you see the bored, whenever we create an object of bored we will ask that.
Give us the bored size so that many cells we will create.
So it's dynamic.
Like if you want ten by ten we can create ten by ten.
If you want 20 by 20 we can create 20 by 20.
So that is also scalable.
Okay.
And also we have exposed one method that add snakes and ladder into the board.
Like uh here we can add the snakes and ladders.
So like how many snakes you wanted, how many letters you wanted because that also is one of the requirement.
Okay.
So number and the place of snakes and ladder should be defined at the game startup.
Okay.
So who will define the snakes and Ladders board.
Board is the correct choice because board has info about cell.
Okay.
And that's why add snakes and later info.
I have put it into the board while creation of the board object.
I only ask how many snakes, how many letters you wanted to add in the board.
Okay.
And we have written we can have different logics.
So I will uh, tell you this logic, what I have done here.
So I am just initializing my board with this many snakes, this many letters.
Okay.
So here, if you see the logic here, what I am doing is let's say you have added here two snakes.
Two snakes and three letters I wanted.
So what I am doing is I am iterating first number of snakes you wanted.
So let's say two snakes.
So this loop will run two times okay.
Now first time it I'm what I'm trying to do I'm finding out two numbers between let's say 0 to 99.
So currently I am our board is n by n right.
Or let's say ten by ten.
So I'm starting from zero.
So it's let's let's say finished at 99 okay.
If you want to start at one then it will finish at 100.
So generally our matrix is like n by n starting from zero.
So I am getting one number from between 0 to 99.
So here I am finding out a head and tail of a snake.
Okay so two snakes I have to create.
So two random number random number one, which is like a head random number two, which is like a tail.
Okay, so let's say I got here 55 as a head and tail.
I got let's say uh, 30.
Okay.
So I'm trying to get two numbers which in this head is higher and tail is lower.
So that's what I am trying to do.
So this condition is nothing but like because in Snake head like this jump is like from head is higher
and the tail is lower.
So player jump is from down top to bottom.
So but let's say if random number is let's say this is 30, head is 30 and tail is let's say 60, then
it is not a snake, right.
Snake jump should be downward.
So that's what I am doing here.
So head should always be higher than the tail.
But if it is not.
Continue.
Uh.
Getting the random numbers.
But if your head and tail is proper according to the snake behavior, let's say 55 head is higher and
the tail is 30, which is lower than head, then yes, it is correct.
And then we are creating a new jump object.
Okay.
So I creating a new jump object which start position is this head 55 and end position is your the tail
which is 30.
Okay.
So this jump object I have created.
Now this jump object need to be assigned to one of the cell okay.
So which cell we have to assign it to the start one.
Like when the player reaches to this position 55, then only the snake will bite the player.
So 55 we have to find out the cell which is at 55 position.
So it's a let's say ten by ten.
So divide by ten this fifth row 55 mod ten.
So fifth column okay.
So this fifth fifth.
So this is the cell we have to take out.
And we have to assign jump object to it.
So that's what I am doing I get the cell from the head let's say 55 the same thing row and column I
got the cell object and each cell has jump right.
So I'm assigning that jump object to this one to this cell okay.
So one object is created.
Similarly I will iterate next time because I have to create two snakes.
So once all the snakes are created and the cells jumps are assigned, then it breaks this loop and then
it moves to the next, where I am assigning the number of letters.
So later is also the same logic.
Okay, only differ is that in the letter.
Now start is lower and end is higher.
So when I am taking out two random number which is let's say start and end.
So only I should proceed when start is lower than the end.
But if it is not, then I have to continue till this random number is in proper order.
Okay, once you got a proper random numbers according to the behavior of a letter, that start is lower
than the end, then we will create a jump object at the start and end, and we will assign this jump
object to a cell which is at start position.
Okay, the same thing, because once the user comes to this start position, then only it moves to this
end.
Okay so understood this board how we are adding the snakes and later.
Okay.
So that object is also done.
And the last object is the game which is considered as an orchestrator.
So in the game what all you need.
I need a board.
So this game has board.
You need a dice.
So game has dice.
And also I am using a DK of player.
Why?
Because let's say two players are playing player one and player two.
With DK you can easily remove an element from the start and add it at the back.
So we have to give alternate chance to the players, right?
So I should be able to delete the player from the start and add it at back once the player one has taken
its turn.
So next time when player two taken its turn, I should be able to remove it from front and should be
able to add it at back.
So that's why I took a deck of player.
Okay, so it also has relationship with the player.
And this game has two things initialize game and start game.
Okay.
So this is all the UML is required for a snake and ladder.
Okay.
Now we will see how this everything is clubbed together and it's working.
So let's move to the game.
So game has board, game has dice and game has a deck of players okay.
So first thing so this is our demo.
So first thing is I am creating an object of a game.
So I am creating an object of a game.
So what's happening inside a game.
We are initializing it.
Okay.
We are initializing means we have to initialize this the board, the dice, the player, we have to
initialize it.
So depending upon the interviewer.
So see this initialization generally have uh used to be done by the let's say client.
So consider this is our we can get this information from the client also.
So for now I am putting this information directly here.
But since it's a method we can easily get this info from the client.
What is the port side.
What is the number of snake.
What is the number of letter?
Okay.
So in the initialization first we are I am initializing the board.
Create a board of size 1010 by ten and add five snakes and four letters.
So I am creating a new board.
So I am creating a new.
Board here okay.
And inside a new board what is happening is it is first initializing the cells Okay so board has 2D
array of cells object right.
So first size is board size is ten.
So here I am iterating it and creating a cells object.
So here.
3456789 ten.
Like this.
This many cells objects I am creating currently.
First it is all by default.
Like this I am creating 01234 like this.
Till 9012.
Like this.
Till all nine.
Okay, so currently I have created a new cell.
Okay.
So this cell has currently no information okay.
But only thing is I have initialized it for now.
Okay.
What else?
Uh, here it does this.
So we have initialized the cells in the board, and now I am adding the snake and ladder.
So how many snakes?
And later five snakes.
Four letters.
I already told you the logic about the adding the snakes and letter so randomly it will add.
Like four snakes, four letters, like five snakes and four letters.
It will add it into the board at different different positions.
Okay, so let's say at this position it added snakes.
Cool.
So so this is two things happening into the first thing like uh, when we call the initialize game the
board is created.
And then so this is initialized and then dice.
So currently I am playing it with only one dice.
But if you want to play it with two we can ask from the client and give that number.
So in the new dice, whatever the dice count is we will put it Okay.
So our dice is also initialized.
And the players.
So here I am adding the player.
So I created two players.
Player one starting at position zero.
Player two starting at position zero, both starting at zeroth position and add it into the deck.
So all these three things are initialized.
So to play a game we need board.
It's initialized.
We need dice.
It is also initialized.
And player it is also initialized.
So initialization is happen when we create an object of a game.
Okay.
So when we create an object of a game initialization happen.
Now we invoke the start game.
Okay.
So now when the start game is happened.
So it just like an orchestrator for the complete.
So here if you see we are iterating over this loop till we don't see any winner.
So till winner is equals to equals to null.
Keep going, keep going, keep going, keep playing the game.
Okay so now what is the first step.
So currently here if you see this is our board.
And in the both player one and player two is at position zero let's say.
And they are in dequeue player one.
Player two.
This is all things we have set up and we have only one dice.
Okay.
So first check whose turn it is.
So we are taking out the player.
So here from the player list we remove the first and add it into the last.
So this is we remove it from the first.
So this is the player which turn it is.
So current player is player one.
And we also added it to the last.
So now currently player turn is player one.
Okay, so this is just I am printing that player turn is this and its current position is this.
So currently player turn is player one.
Current position is zero.
Now it has to roll the dice.
So I'm calling dice dot roll dice okay.
Because this already has an object of dice.
So I am calling the roll dice.
So roll dice has.
We have only one dice right?
While creating an object we have provided dice count one, so this will only run one time.
So only one time.
We take out a random number between this min and max one and six.
So whatever the num we get, it will return.
Now let's say dice number we got is.
Let's say the dice number we got is four.
So what we are doing is next we are taking out the new position.
The new position is new position of player one is zero plus four For.
Okay.
So player is now have to go to this position.
So now I am checking.
I am doing a jump check that whatever the position new position player one has got, is there any jump
associated with it.
So let's say 01234.
So here fourth position we need to take out a cell.
So how we can take out a cell.
So it's a ten by ten matrix right four divided by ten four mod ten.
So this is your row which is zero.
This is your column which is four.
So 01234.
So this is the column which we have to put row zero column four.
So this is the cell we have to pick.
Is there any jump associated with it currently.
No there is no jump.
This cell has no jump because cell has jump information.
Okay.
So currently it has no jump associated.
So I'm checking a jump check.
Now let's see how I am doing a jump check.
So here if you see if both dot get cell new position the same thing like what I did here.
Whatever the new position is let's say here I am doing finding out the row and column taking out that
particular cell.
Taking out this particular cell.
If this cell jump is not equal to null, means yes, there is some jump associated with it.
Okay.
And jump start is equals to equals to new position that this currently the new position is for.
Right after rolling the dice player one reaches to this fourth position.
Yes.
So this is you can say that that's the validation.
So yes The jump start is this point itself.
Now what?
Wherever it goes, it's tail.
Or you can say that it's end.
We will jump the user to that position.
So jump by.
So what I am doing is so this is just a printing to determine whether it's a leader or a snake.
Okay.
We don't need it.
I'm just checking that okay.
If start is lesser than the end then means there is a leader on that particular cell.
Otherwise there is a snake.
Okay, so I'm just printing just for printing purpose.
That jump is done by leader or jump is done by snake who has done it.
But generally if that particular cell, if that particular cell has a jump object, then this is the
end position I am returning.
So here if you see player new position would now change to this jump and position wherever it is.
Okay, so it would be the jump and position if there is a jump associated with this cell.
If no if there is no jump associated with this cell, like if it is null, whatever the current position
is, return that.
Okay.
So let's say if this cell has no jump associated, whatever the current position, after rolling the
dice it will return that only.
Okay.
But if there is jump associated it the new position would be whatever the end point of the jump, whether
it's up or high, we don't care.
Okay.
And we are assigning the player current position to this whatever the new position we have got.
So this is clear right?
What would be the new position if the cell has no jump associated it.
Then what?
After rolling up the dice, whatever we got, we just add it into current position and this would be
the new position.
But if this new position, if this cell has jump associated with it, then whatever the end point of
that jump, whether it's a snake bite, then it would be a lower or whether it would be higher.
That would be our new player position.
Okay, so the player turn was, let's say player one and its new position is this one.
Whatever the new position is either after the jump end point or if there is no jump associated only
after rolling the dice.
Okay.
And now I have to check whether the winning condition has been achieved or not.
So when the winning condition will happen, let's say after rolling the dice if user has reached the
end position.
So that's where I'm checking if the player new position is greater than the board size.
Board size is, let's say 100 If it reads that or equals to that one means the player has won the game.
If it reads till the last cell or it crossed, it means the player has win.
But if not, the game will continue.
So in the next run, what would happen is find the player turn.
Find the player turn.
What would happen is in the D Q who is at the front?
Player two.
So current player is become player two.
And it we will take it out and put it at the back.
Okay.
And uh, current position is is zero.
Now what it will do is it will roll the dice.
So we have only one dice.
So let's say we got six roll dice.
We got six.
So for now current position is six.
So we take out a cell.
Particular cell uh row and column.
So six divided by ten zero six mod ten is this is the column six.
So zero comma six.
So zero comma let's say six.
So this is the cell.
Now we check.
Hey is there any jump associated with this.
So we are checking a jump check.
If this jump has no jump associated with it it will return this whatever the new position is.
This only if there is a jump associated with it will return the position of a jump end.
Okay, so whatever the position we got that we will assign it to current player position okay.
So current player position would be either zero plus six either six.
If there is a jump then its end position.
But currently let's say there is no jump associated with it.
So it would be six.
After that we are checking a winning condition.
Thus six is greater than equals to let's say 99 no.
So game will continue.
So it will again goes here.
Okay.
So this will repeat again and again.
So if you play the game so now here if you see if I play the game.
This is it printing.
So here if you see player one current position is zero okay.
Now what would happen is player one current position is zero for for now.
Now it will roll the dice.
Okay.
And uh, after rolling the dice, we will see the jump check.
And whatever the new position will come, we will assign to that one.
And then we are printing player one.
Now new position is two.
So here if you see if there is any jump happen we are also printing it here.
So currently means there is no jump happened to this player.
So means in the dice it got two.
Similarly, player two turns come.
Current position is zero.
New position is six.
Okay, now player one turn.
So currently player one was at two position.
So it is starting from two.
Now it rolls the dice.
It got new position is four.
So they will continue playing the game.
Now let's see a point where.
So they are continuously reaching to a position.
Now let's see.
Yeah.
Jump down by stay.
So player one turn which is currently at 77th position.
Now what happens is it rolls a dice.
It might get certain point a certain number.
Let's say four five something.
Now we are checking this player new position.
Let's say 77 plus.
Uh it got three.
So total 80.
So this is, this should be the new position of the current player.
Okay, so we are checking at 80th position.
Is there any jump or not?
Yes, there is a snake present.
Okay.
So jump is not equal to null at 80th position.
And uh here if you see that this is just for printing purpose.
So whatever the end position of that jump we are assigning to it.
So end position is 35.
So ultimately earlier it was 77.
But after rolling the dice it comes to 35.
Why.
Because there was a snake present at 80.
So there was a snake present at 80 which bites the player one.
And it comes back to 35.
Okay.
So now next time when the player one runs, it will run from 35.
And again this will continue.
Let's see any letters we got.
Yes.
So player one current position is 56 okay.
Now it throws the dice.
Now let's say 56, and the dice it throws is two.
So 58.
So at 58 cell let's say you can calculate right 58 divided by ten.
Fifth row 858 mod ten eighth column.
So we can take out cell five comma eight.
So we will take out this cell.
Okay.
We will take out this particular cell.
And we'll see any jump is associated or not.
And here if you see there was a letter.
So means the end position.
We will use it.
So earlier it was in 56.
Now it moved to 77.
And this game continues.
And ultimately the player who reached to this position 100 is the winner.
And the game stops.
See there could be some validations missing.
Okay.
Having a full proof validation is not our major agenda in this one.
The major agenda is that how we can build this game.
So this is the most simplistic, simplistic, simplistic way we can design this game.
So I will tell you another way.
Generally engineers use in the interview.
So they create.
So they have two classes.
Generally they create one class for snake.
Also they have like a start point end point.
They also create one more class for later.
They have a start point end point.
And they create a game object in that they put a list of let's say snake, and they also put a list
of later.
And generally what they do is that whenever they get a number, let's say 1332, so they iterate over
this list, okay.
Whether whether there is a snake or later in this.
So they iterate over this list.
Then they treat over this list and try to find out.
So this I don't feel more intuitive because y.
For every dice run y, you need to iterate over this two list to determine whether on this particular
cell you have a snake or later present.
We can easily put that on a each cell.
We can have the jump itself.
You don't have to put uh snake or later.
Also, it's a jump whether a lower jump or a higher jump, we don't care.
Okay.
So we can associate the cell with a jump itself.
Now, whatever the number player at current position, we can take out of that cell itself.
Okay.
We can easily find out through row and column we can take out the cell.
And once we got the cell, we can know that a jump is associated or not.
If it is null means there is no jump.
I don't need to check for snake letter if there is a jump again.
Whatever the end position is, I just need to take the player to that position itself.
Finish.
Okay, so I told you what mistakes generally engineer does.
So one is this list.
This is not intuitive.
Another is that this zigzag flow of the matrix.
So this is something where uh, this becomes super complicated.
So once if you goes into this zigzag trap, right, then it this quotient become too tough to implement.
All you need to know is this is just a UI representation.
If you see the numbering, it goes sequentially.
So after five if user get two so it goes five, six, seven.
So in sequence only they always go nothing but a plain matrix itself.
So I have pushed this code onto the grid.
Check it out.
Practice with your hand and if there is any doubt let me know.
We can discuss into the further section by.

--- Proxy Design Pattern (Structural Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today we will do proxy design pattern.
So it's a part of a structural category okay.
So it provides a representative or placeholder for another object to control access to it.
So understand this with a simple diagram.
So here we have a client which is trying to access this real object.
So proxy as the name it is placing in mid between this client and real object.
And it controls the access okay.
So client is never directly talking with the real objects.
So it all the communication is happen through proxy okay.
So use cases of proxy design patterns are like if you are working with the spring boot or if your day
to day like everywhere, you can find that yes, there is a proxy involved in that.
So first very useful use cases.
Access control.
So it restricts access to sensitive sensitive operations based on user permission.
So let's say a client is trying to perform a delete operation.
Okay.
So instead of directly calling the delete we can have a proxy where it will check the permission.
Okay.
If user has permission then only let the user invoke the delete method.
Otherwise block the request itself.
Okay.
So this is one use case of proxy.
Another important use case of proxy is pre and post processing.
So if you are from spring boot background or normal even if not spring boot background normal.
If you are working at a back end project, you know that when we are trying to update the DB internally,
we have to create a transaction.
We have to start the transaction and then perform a DB operation, and then we have to end or roll back
the transaction based upon its success.
Okay.
So generally in spring boot example I am giving when we use at the rate transaction annotation, we
just perform db operation.
Hey this is the DB operation which I want to do and you just annotate it with at the annotation.
Internally it make use of proxy design pattern.
So it does some pre-processing and post-processing.
So it intercept.
So instead of directly calling the DB operations there is a proxy class got invoked first which start
the transaction which is nothing but a pre-processing.
So it does some additional work before the actual task.
So to start the transaction then whatever the DB operation you wanted to perform, it does that.
After that the post-processing if the operation is success and the transaction else or and the commit
the transaction else rollback the transaction.
So this is a very very good example for you can say that pre and post processing use case of a proxy
design pattern.
Okay.
So this definition is clear.
And the use cases are clear.
Like what exactly proxy design pattern is.
So it's very very easy to understand with the class diagram.
And then we will see an example.
So it would be proper clear.
So we have an interface say subject.
And we have a real implementation of it.
So this is a concrete class okay.
So consider this is a real object.
And client is interested in accessing the real object.
But here in the proxy design pattern we also create one more child class of this subject which is a
proxy proxy subject okay.
It is also a concrete class.
Now the very important part is that this proxy has a reference of this real subject.
Now why it has?
Because now the client will never talk directly with the real subject.
It talk with the proxy, and the proxy need a reference so that it can further invoke the real subject.
So understand with this example.
So here I have created an employee Dao.
So this employee employee Dao has two method get employee info and create employee.
So two method get and create.
And this is the real the actual object which performs the thing.
So it is a child of this employee Dao get it is fetching the data from the DB.
This is create creation of an employee in the DB.
Okay, now here if you see I have created one proxy employee Dao proxy.
And here I have this reference.
So whenever the employee Dow proxy object is going to get constructed.
So this is a constructor.
So I am creating a reference of this one actual object.
So it has the reference of this employee Dow impl.
The real object.
Okay.
So this got.
Created instance is filled up whenever this constructor is invoked.
Okay.
And it has certain fields which this proxy is required to do its validation.
So let's say currently I'm just using client role.
So based on that client role it will decide certain rules.
Let's say that now these two methods it will provide an implementation.
Get employee info and create employee.
So get employee info.
So now here first it is checking that if client role whatever the client role we have is equals to admin
or client role is user, then it will allow to access the request.
So whatever the object.
Now I have for the actual object, it will use it and call the method.
So now this will get invoked properly.
Else it will throw an exception.
Access denied.
So this is I'm showcasing the use case one.
Whatever we have discussed this one.
Access control.
Okay.
Similarly the other method implementation is.
So here if you understand that what proxy is doing is proxy is just controlling the access here.
Hey, should I provided access or not?
Implementation is still there into the actual method okay.
It just do certain validation and then forward the request to the actual object okay.
Similarly for create employee it just check whatever the client role we have.
Is it admin.
Then only let the create employee method request pass through.
Otherwise Access denied.
Okay, so here I am creating a proxy object.
So now this is my client.
So here the client is trying to access object, but not through real subject.
Through proxy.
So this is my client.
Now first client is creating an object of employed proxy and passes the role user.
So here in this constructor it passes the client role as user.
So currently the role is assigned as user.
And in the constructor new object of this employee Dao impl would be created.
So this is done at this one.
So now this proxy object I am calling first employee info.
So it will say that okay whatever the role is admin or user.
Yes it is user.
So it will allow.
Now I am with the same object I am trying to call create employee.
So create employee has admin but minus user.
Okay I created this object with the user role.
It won't be able to access it.
So it would say access denied.
Very very simple okay.
But highly used.
It might not be like in your day to day work.
You might not see it, but it is very heavily used when you will start working with Spring Boot framework.
You realize that, or even not with just Spring Boot, even with JUnit, even with Spring Boot, and
within Java itself, like we have annotation reflection internally proxy is involved.
Okay, so before our real object got invoked, this proxy, some layer catches it, perform some additional
work, and then ultimately pass the object pass to the real object.
Okay.
Let me know if there is any doubt we can discuss further into the comment section.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- LLD of BookMyShow | Design Movie Ticket Booking App ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Null Object Design Pattern (Behavioral Pattern) ---

Said, welcome back to the channel.
And today we will do null object pattern which belongs to a category of behavioral pattern okay.
So let's first understand the problem before even we try to understand what does null object pattern
does.
Okay.
So let's say that the problem is the our code without null check lead to an unexpected behavior due
to null pointer exception.
We all know that we are working in an industry, and we know that null pointer exception is the biggest.
You can say that error contributor sometime okay, resulting in a poor user experience.
This is also known as.
This is also a bad programming practice because null pointer exception in a code means it's a server
error and it is not handled properly and it is not expected.
Okay.
So this shows a use case which is not handled properly.
And that's why it's a bad programming practice.
And that's one reason we have to put so many not equals to null checks everywhere across the code,
so that we can avoid null pointer exception.
I have seen engineers even with every line of code, they feel like okay, if I put a null pointer exception
if not equals to null check even though it is not necessary, but they just add it.
Just it gives a little confidence that okay null pointer exception should not come.
That's why like we as an engineer we all know that we fear this null pointer exceptions a lot because
if this comes in life it is does not look good.
And that's where we use lot of not equals to null checks across the project which makes it difficult
to manage.
And it is also a polluting the code unnecessarily.
So understand this with an example.
So here I have a vehicle interface which has very two simple uh, you can say that no need to put abstract
internally, it automatically does that.
We have a start and stop method.
Okay so I have two class car which is a vehicle.
So it's a child of this vehicle class.
Similarly bike it is a vehicle.
So it is also a child of this vehicle class.
And here there are certain car specific fields.
Bike specific fields.
Very simple.
No uh extra in that only thing is very simple interface vehicle.
And we have two child car and bike and they have, uh, provided the implementation of start and stop.
That's all.
Okay.
Very very simple class.
Now we have one factory method here.
Factory pattern.
So I have a vehicle factory.
And based on that type, which user is, uh, giving me if it giving me car, I am creating a car object.
If it is giving me a bike, I am creating a bike object.
But for everything else, I am returning the null.
Understand that this is one part of the problem.
So in one piece of the code, we return the null.
So let me write here.
Returning null is also a one part of the problem.
Okay so I returned the null.
Now let's say the client which are using it.
So it calls the factory.
Hey, give me an object of truck.
So truck equals to car.
No.
Truck equals to bike.
No.
What?
It will return null.
So my truck object is actually a null.
Now I have to use that.
Hey truck object not equals to null.
Then only try to call the start method.
Otherwise if you don't put this condition not equal to null, it will throw null pointer exception.
If you don't put this if condition.
So we can say that this if condition if not equals to null.
This is also a problem.
So returning the null.
And then we have to put a safeguard that it should not be null.
That's the problem which actually null object pattern tries to solve.
Because see this is very basic code.
Just two classes.
And with that itself we have to put like return null not equals to null.
Just imagine when we have thousand of classes methods at how many places we have to put a null check.
So that's where the null object patterns comes into the picture.
So it tries to come up with a way so that we can avoid this not equals to null everywhere across the
code.
So it says that.
So null object pattern is a behavioral design pattern that uses polymorphism to eliminate null checks.
How we will see that.
So instead of returning null.
So it is to us.
Hey engineers, instead of returning null, you can return a null object.
Okay, so here we.
It is saying that you can return a null object that implements the expected interface but does nothing
default behavior.
So what it what it is saying is that instead of returning null, why can't we return a null object and
that null object does nothing?
Or the default behavior which you want, so that you don't have to put not equals to null, even though
you will try to access it, it will do some default behavior or do nothing.
This lead to a clean code without redundant null checks everywhere.
So let's see that how we can do that.
So consider this class diagram.
Here we have an interface which has certain operation.
Okay.
Now this is the object which provides an implementation.
So here in this case consider that it is our vehicle.
And this is car okay.
Which provides an It's an implementation.
But here we also create one null object which is also a child of this interface.
Okay.
And for this operation it does certain default behavior or do nothing itself.
Now whenever we have to return null we can return the null object.
See this one.
So again the vehicle interface we have car.
We have bike.
We have already seen like when you call start it will start the car.
When you will stop it will stop the car.
Similarly bike providing an implementation for this two very simple.
Nothing else.
Okay now here if you see that null vehicle.
So I created this null object.
Null vehicle which is also a child of vehicle.
So here I am giving the default behavior if I want.
So for color let's say I give default color.
Seating capacity is zero okay.
So that's why I added certain field that.
So this is not bike specific.
This is no no specific like so.
Some default values to the fields okay.
And when you call start and stop I'm doing do nothing.
So that's what it says that we can create a null object which does nothing or default behavior whatever
you like okay.
So now in the vehicle factory the only difference is that if type is car, return a car object.
If type is bike, return a bike object.
Else instead of returning null, we are returning a null vehicle object.
Null object.
Okay, now now let's say that vehicle factory dot get vehicle truck.
So it is car.
No, it is like no.
So now it will return null vehicle object.
So this truck object is not actually null.
It's null Vehicle object in this scenario.
So whenever you will try to do dot start it will call this.
Do nothing.
So you don't have to put not equals to null.
Not equals to null.
You don't have to put it.
So that's how easy it is.
And that's how we can avoid so many null checks.
Okay.
Only thing is instead of returning null, return the null object.
And that null object is still a child of your.
Whatever the product your is, it is one of the child class with the default implementation.
Okay, easy.
So it's benefit is it?
Make code cleaner by eliminating repetitive null checks.
Reduce null pointer exception risk.
Increase code readability.
So null object pattern.
Again I would say that you will find this into the industry.
Uh it's very frequently used.
But still if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further into the comment section.
Okay guys.
Bye.

--- State Design Pattern (Behavioral) |  Design Vending Machine ---

Hey guys and welcome back to the channel.
And today we are going to cover state design pattern using multiple examples like vending machine traffic
signal okay.
So let's first understand the behavior of traffic signal.
And then we will see and learn about how state design pattern actually fit into these type of question
okay.
So let's start with traffic signal because this one is simple vending machine.
Second one because that you can say it's a mid level question.
So in traffic signal what generally we have is we have different states like initial state is red.
And once the red state is achieved it moves to the green state.
Then it performs its operation.
And after the green state work is done, it moves to the next state yellow.
And after that it again goes to the next state, which is again red.
So there are a sequence of steps states red state which has certain operation like make signal red,
then green state, which task is to make the green signal, uh, signal green and then yellow state
which task is to make the signal yellow?
Right.
So these type of problems where object change the state after performing certain operation can be solved
through state design pattern.
Okay.
So again, uh, go through this object, change the state after performing certain operation.
So here let's say this is an object after performing an operation of a red, let's say make signal red,
it change its state to green.
So these kind of behavior can be solved through state design pattern.
Other problem like television where state is on off vending machine where state could be idle.
Then accept coin product selection.
Different states will go through.
But there are so many problems which interviewer can ask.
And we have to identify that, okay, this problem does have any state, okay.
Depending upon certain operation, if depending on certain operation, if state is getting impacted
means it can be solved through state design pattern.
Okay.
So now here we comes our state design pattern definition.
State design pattern allows an object to change its behavior dynamically at runtime whenever there is
a change in internal state.
Okay.
So you can go through this definition again.
But let's come to this UML so that it becomes super clear.
And when we go through this definition again this will be like proper understandable, like what this
definition is trying to say.
So this is the UML of state uh, state design pattern.
So here we have an product any object.
Okay.
It could be a vending machine.
It could be a traffic signal.
It could be a television, like any product.
So we take out the state of a product.
Okay.
So there we have a product state interface.
So this is you can say that interface or abstract class whichever uh we want.
And here internally we put all the operations which are possible within that particular state.
Okay.
So then we create a multiple child classes for this product state let's say state one.
State two, state three.
So whatever the states applicable that become a child class of this interface or abstract class, this
product state okay.
And each state implements provide their own logic for the particular operation which is eligible for
that state.
For example, here in this case, let's say I have total ten operations.
So in the state, one only operation one, operation five and operation seven is eligible.
So it will provide an implementation for this three okay.
Similarly state two only deals with operation two.
Operation eight.
And here it will deal with operation three and operation four.
Let's say an operation ten.
Let's say just an example.
So we have all the operations possible in the interface or abstract class.
And each state provide an implementation for these operation.
And also one more thing.
So that is the first part.
Each state provide an implementation for their only operation which they are only interested in.
Second is on each operation it will decide the next state whether it has to be in the same state after
performing this operation, or it has to move to the different state that is also we can do.
So this this part is clear.
We have a we have a product and we separate out its state into this interface and its child classes.
Now here, if you see that this product has state, this product has state.
So that's why it has a relationship okay.
And here it also expose the method set current state whatever the current state is.
So let's say initially whenever the you create an object of product its current state is state one.
So this is the initial state.
So when the initial state you will start performing let's say operation one.
After that here it receive an object of the product also.
So once it does an operation I told you after performing an operation it can decide whether I have two
in the same state or I need to change so it can call this.
It has the product object.
It can call the set current state and set the next state which it wants.
Let's see this with an example of traffic signal.
So here this is my product traffic light.
Traffic light is our product.
Okay.
And all the possible state it can have I take it out separately.
So traffic light state I kept it as an interface.
And I have only one operation.
So see this is are generally a light.
This is my traffic light.
So these are one state.
So this is state one.
This is state two.
This is state three.
So state one is red state.
State two is my green state.
And state three is like yellow state.
So three different state possible.
Now in each state what all operation is possible.
So in the case of traffic light Only one operation is possible.
That is like you can make the light red here.
In this case, you can make the light green.
In this case you can make the light yellow so that only one operation.
So I gave it the name action.
Whenever this action is invoked it will.
What it will do is it will do.
Let's say if it is a red state it will make the signal red.
If it's a green, it will make the signal green.
Okay.
So that's what I am doing.
So red state is implementing this and what it will do.
It will stop behavior.
So what it will do is whatever the signal is it will change its color to red let's say.
And now this is important that the traffic light here I am sending an object of traffic light.
Right.
Once it is done its operation, read it.
Change the next state to Two signal dot set state green state so it will change it to next green state.
Okay.
Similarly, my green state which is also a child of this traffic light state.
So it is providing its own implementation that it will do certain go behavior.
It will make the signal green.
And once it is done its task it will make change the state signal dot set state.
Yellow state.
Okay.
So it will update the traffic light signal.
Its state is changed to yellow state suddenly.
Uh, then we have a yellow state, which is also providing an implementation for this method.
Its behavior is making like, uh, the traffic light yellow.
And once it is done, it will change the signal state to again red, again red.
So this will continuously go on.
Okay.
So this is one part we have done.
So we have created a product state and all its state.
Now let's see our product traffic light.
So traffic light has traffic light state.
So that's why it has a relationship.
So traffic light state this one.
So it has okay.
And this is the constructor I told you whenever we create an object of traffic light we will provide
it some initial state.
So initial state whenever the constructor is called the initial state which I have provided is in red.
So whatever the state is I provided the red state.
So this is my initial state okay.
And this is one setter method I provided so that each state can update this state based on the operation.
Okay.
And you can say that this is the starting like okay start change.
So whenever this method is invoked it will call this state method state dot action.
So see this one.
So I have created a new traffic light when I created a new traffic light.
What is the state of this traffic light is currently red state.
So currently it is red.
Okay now I am calling traffic light dot change.
So when I click this, when I invoke this method what it does state dot action this.
So what it will do is it will invoke this.
So red right.
So initial state is red.
So it will call this method action.
So it will implement the red behavior.
It will make the signal red.
And then it will change the signal uh state.
So this state now object is changed to green state okay.
So when I call the change it perform a red operation.
And then it change the state to red to green.
Now when you call change again.
So what would happen is it will call state dot action.
So it will call this one.
So it will perform the go behavior.
It will make the signal green.
And also it will change the signal state.
Now it holds a yellow okay.
Again when you called it change it will call state dot action.
Now it holds yellow right.
So it will call this one.
So it will perform whatever the behavior it has to do.
And it change the behavior of this one.
Now it will hold again red okay.
And you can continuously perform the operations like this.
So this traffic signals I have created based on the state design pattern.
So I hope the state design pattern is clear right with this simple traffic light signal.
So again change read this definition of this state pattern.
Allow an object It to change its behavior dynamically at runtime whenever there is a change in its internal
state.
Okay, so its internal state.
This is the internal state.
Whenever it is changed, let's say it is yellow.
And whenever you perform its behavior or action or function, you can say behavior is a function.
So you will get some different behavior right based on the state the behavior change.
Okay.
So based on an internal state its behavior is getting changed of an object.
So that's what the definition of state design pattern said.
Now similarly in interview we can also get a question of design vending machine.
And I believe that this can also be performed through state design pattern.
And here This is a vending machine.
So here, if you say that, uh, general operation is that the first is user click on that start insert
coin.
So user can now start putting the coin.
So machine become active.
So currently it's an idle state.
So it's an idle state.
So this is the zeroth step.
So first user clicked on this start insert coin so that the machine is in position to accepting the
coin.
So this user can insert coin.
So second step you can say that the user is inserting the coin once user finished it.
Now what it can do is it can select the product okay.
Now it can click the hey I am done with inserting the coin.
Now I want to select the product and it can put a code.
Let's say I am interested in this 101.
So it will it will put the code once it is done.
Either it can cancel it so that it can get the refund, or once it is properly success, it can collect
the item.
Okay.
And if there is a change, a change can be collected too.
So this is very minimalistic design of a vending machine.
And if you see the state we can cover this in a particular state diagram of this also.
So initially the vending machine is in my idle state.
Now when the user click that insert coin button.
So my vending machine is changing the state to collect money state.
So in this user can perform many operations like insert coin.
Whenever user insert coin, choose an insert coin operation.
It is always remain in the same state.
Whenever a choose a user, choose select product operation.
So these are different operation.
Whenever this operation is, choose the state change, it moves to the selection state.
Okay.
Now here user can choose the product.
And here if everything goes good it moves to the dispense product state okay.
And if the product is dispensed successfully it's ultimately move to the again to the idle state.
But there is a chance that at this point of time where user is inserting the money in the collect money
state, it can also click refund or cancel the transaction.
So we should be able to refund and move to the idle state.
Similarly, during the selection state also user decide that okay I don't want product now.
It can also cancel here or there is insufficient fund.
It can move to, it can refund and move to the idle stage.
So I am not saying that this state diagram or this, you can say that the event of sequence of state
is like realistic.
Depending upon your discussion with the interviewer.
You can modify or upgrade this diagram.
But for simplicity, uh, simply we need to understand with a minimalistic design.
Okay.
So we can understand this complex vending machine with this, like okay, these are the four states
possible and these are the sequence between them.
Make sense.
So we have an ideal state where what all operation is possible.
This is the one operation.
Press insert coin button.
User can only do this.
Or another it can do is like uh update inventory.
This is another operation.
Possible because when the machine is idle, you can either press insert coin button or you can even
update the inventory.
Now once it changes the state to has money state, it can do following operation insert coin, you can
insert coin, you can select product.
You can cancel or refund.
Once it moves to selection state it can choose the product, you can return it.
Return the change.
Let's say user has.
The product is for ₹12, but user has inserted ₹30.
So certain change need to be done right so we can return the change here.
If user wanted to get a full refund, it can also refund at this state also.
Then the last state is dispensed product state and what all operation machine can do at this is like
only dispense the product.
So this is the possible state and each state what all operations are possible that we have come up with.
So with this state diagram, if we have to do the design for this vending machine, we can do like this.
So here what is my product.
My product is vending machine.
Let me zoom it a bit.
My product is vending machine.
Now let's first see its state.
So this is my state I have chosen a an abstract class and all the possible operations.
Okay, so all the possible operations which we have think of this machine can do.
Press insert coin, insert coin.
These are all operations right.
So I have written here click on Insert Coin button.
This is one operation okay.
So by default it is doing nothing.
Click on start product selection button.
Insert coin.
Choose product right.
Get change dispense product refund.
Full money update inventory.
So this is all the different operations which our vending machine can do.
Now depend upon states.
Let's say first is idle state.
In idle state is only interested in this two operation.
Click on Insert coin button.
Whenever this operation is, choose what it does it.
So this is the machine, right?
Which is we are accepting.
So it moves the machine vending machine to a next state set vending machine state to has money state.
So it changes the state of the machine when this operation is chosen.
And another thing which we can do when we are idle is update the inventory.
So whatever the inventory we have we can update it add items.
Similarly the next state is has money state.
So out of this operation the has money state is only interested in this.
Three when you are move into this state means the vending machine now can accept the coins.
So one is insert coin.
Now user can insert the coin, accepted the coin and it keep on appending the coins okay.
Second it can do is that once it is done user can select the product.
Okay.
So as soon as the user has clicked hey start product selection button okay.
What we are doing is we are moving the vending machine state from has money to selection state.
Okay.
Because user has choose this operation product selection.
So we are moving it to the new state.
So we change the state into this operation.
And also one more operation.
Uh, in this state user can perform is that it can choose to refund full money.
So here we are refunding it.
And when we are refunding it we change the machine state to idle back.
Okay.
So third is selection state.
So let's say user moves to the selection state what all user can do.
So in the selection stage if you see it can do this three things okay.
So out of this operation it is only interested in performing this three things.
So one is selection state.
It can choose product.
So in while choosing the product.
This is a logic which you can go through.
So I'll just give you a high level what I am doing.
So whatever the code number I am taking out that item.
Okay, I am checking how much coins user has given me.
What is the price of the current item?
If it is item is more expensive than what user has inserted the coin, then I would say insufficient
amount.
Okay.
And throw an exception.
But if user has provided more money then I have to change it.
Okay.
So I do get change similarly here.
Uh, if all goods go.
If everything goes good, then ultimately I am changing the state of machine to dispense state.
So now I have a sufficient money.
I have refunded the extra amount which user has given.
I have the product and I move the machine state to dispenser state.
Next state.
Okay, so I am calling new dispenser state and Using this code number.
Like which item I have to dispense.
Okay.
And the machine.
So this is the next step.
Dispense the state.
So when this is invoked it automatically call this operation.
So we don't want user to have certain button that you have to dispense product.
So as soon as this constructor is invoked it calling this method dispense product and it provides an
implementation product has been dispensed updated the inventory okay.
And change the machine state back to idle.
So it's again change state back to idle.
So different states interested only in certain specific operations.
And also on each operation they can decide whether I have to change the state of a product or not.
Simple.
Okay.
And see this vending machine.
Now this is the product.
It has this vending machine state.
So it has a relationship with this vending machine state.
And during constructor when we create a vending machine what is the initial state we are giving this
idol.
So our machine start with the idol state okay.
And we have a set method where this each state can set this machine state whenever required.
Okay.
So this is the minimalistic design.
Now in the vending machine if you need more like if interviewer asking more then here I will give you
what extra I am doing.
So here if you see that in this vending machine this is all inventory okay.
So this is all inventory and I called this is as like an item shelf.
So this is one shelf which has a code for it okay.
And this item shelf F keeps an item.
So that's what I am doing.
So this vending machine has an inventory.
Okay.
So has an inventory.
So I have an inventory class.
So inventory has nothing but an list of items a list of item shelf okay.
So each item shelf has three things code item and whether it is sold out or not.
So this is one item shelf.
This is one item shelf which has a code which has an item and whether it has information, whether it
is sold out or not.
Now each item I told you it has item right?
So has item.
So item has two things.
What is its type?
What is its price.
So type I have chosen like Coke, Pepsi, juice, soda water.
You can add anything.
Whatever the different type of items this vending machine has.
So item has what is the type and what is the price?
So this is the extra information we can have in our vending machine.
Okay.
Yeah.
And also one more things vending machine has this coin.
So that's why I have a list of coins okay.
And here I have a enum which has like penny nickel dime quarter.
This is just to maintain a list of coins.
And this is nothing but a getter setter.
So now understand this with this function.
So first thing what I am doing is I am creating a new vending machine.
So when I'm creating a new vending machine, what it will do is this constructor will get invoked.
And what what is the current state of my vending state is idle.
So currently it is in idle and new inventory ten means I am creating an inventory of ten items.
Shelf.
So ten item shelf I am creating.
Okay, currently coin list is empty.
There is no coin, so I have just set up my machine.
Then I am filling up the inventory.
So I call the method Fill up inventory.
So in this I am doing nothing but whatever the ten shelves I have on let's say on three, I fill up
the cork.
On another three I fill up the Pepsi juice soda.
So this is just like filling up the slots, the items shelf.
So in each item shelf can keep an item.
So I'm creating a new item object every time and keeping it.
So I'm filling this up.
Nothing much.
Okay.
And after that.
So now once my vending machine is ready it has inventory.
Now what I am doing is clicking on Insert Coin button.
So here.
So this is the.
So currently it is printing the get vending machine state.
So what is the current state.
Here it is.
idle.
Okay.
So here.
Now I am clicking.
So now here I am invoking the method that hey vending state dot click on Insert coin button.
So what would happen is I'm invoking this.
Click on Insert coin button because current state is idle.
So what would happen is it will move the machine state to has money state.
So it will move to this state.
Okay.
So now if you print this like what is the money.
Uh current vending machine state it's now moved to has money state.
So now it can accept coin.
So I'm invoking insert coin nickel quarter.
So here I am invoking this method.
And here if you see that it is not changing the state of my machine.
Okay.
So it just accepting the coin.
Now that is done I am invoking a method product selection button.
So I am invoking the click on start product selection button.
So current my state is this only because I inserted coin only and state is not changed.
So now I click this button click on Start Product selection button.
So what would happen with this is like my machine state changed to selection state.
Okay so now I am doing get machine state.
So it would be like selection state now.
And now I am choosing the product 102.
So choose product method I am invoking.
So it will call this one.
So here it perform operation that okay I have sufficient money or not.
And if there is an extra money it will dispense, it will refund me and ultimately it will change my
state to dispense state.
It will change my state to dispense state if I have sufficient money.
And when dispense state is invoked constructor invoke it automatically dispense my product.
Okay, so if I run this.
So here currently my vending machine is in idle state.
I am filling up the inventory.
So this is the inventory which I filled up currently.
All are available.
And these are different item shelves.
So currently we have given ten item shelves.
So we have different item shelves.
Now currently I'm clicking on Insert Coin button.
So it moved to the has money state and it accepted the coins.
Then I'm clicking on Product selection button okay.
And as soon as you click on Product Selection button the machine state changed to selection state.
Now here you can choose the product.
Which product we choose 102102 was ₹1,212.
And how many money we have given nickel and quarter, right nickel and quarter.
So nickel is five and quarter is 25.
So total ₹30 we have given and product is for ₹12.
So it in the dispense tray it will give me refund back ₹18.
Okay.
So that logic I have put it here into this one.
Okay.
So if paid uh paid by user is greater than the item here.
If paid by user is greater than the item, get change.
Okay.
Once this get change is done, return the amount extra amount it will move to the dispenser state.
So currently vending machine is in dispenser state and product has been dispensed and vending state
moves to idle state.
So that's all happening here.
So as soon as the this constructor is invoked it will product has been dispensed.
It will move the.
Machine back to the idle state.
Okay.
So practice with your hand.
This question, try to, uh.
So I'm not saying that vending machine can only be created through this, uh, state design pattern.
It can be created through multiple, uh, designs.
Also, you can have a total separate design, but I wanted to explain you state design pattern.
That's what my main motto is.
Okay.
So that with this two example, whenever any new question interview asks.
So we should first think that okay, does that involve states okay.
And those states get changed based on certain behavior.
If that is the case then state design pattern is the perfect solution.
Okay guys, if there is any doubt, we can discuss further into the comment section by.

--- LLD of ATM ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome back and welcome to concept and coding or video that is design atm right.
So guys uh, I have asked one question that in the design atm, which two design pattern I am gonna
use.
Right.
So most of the answer which I have got is correct state design pattern.
And another is chain of responsibility design pattern.
At which place we are going to use it I will tell you, but the prerequisite is if you don't know about
state design pattern.
So this is my playlist.
So here if you see design a vending machine it is nothing.
But I explain the state design pattern with an example.
So it has state design pattern is completely described here.
If you don't know and chain of responsibilities design login system.
This is just an example I use to explain the chain of responsibility design pattern.
right?
I'm going to use two design patterns.
One is state.
Design pattern.
And another is.
Chain of responsibility.
Design pattern.
So this and this depends upon the scope of the LD.
Right.
What should be the scope when when these two will come into the picture.
When only this come into the picture.
When we have to make use of only this and when we have to use both.
So.
You can use right or scope of use.
So it depends.
So we have to clarify with the interviewer with the scope.
So I'll tell you this thing.
But before going to that, I will first in five minutes I will explain what is state design pattern
and what is chain of responsibility.
Right.
So state design pattern.
So here if you remember what I told was any object, any real time object which has operations, let's
say I have operation one.
Operation two, operation three, operation N I have different operations, but different operation
can be performed on a particular state of an object.
Right.
Let's say operation one and operation two can only be done in state one.
Operation three and operation four can be done in state two.
Right.
Then this kind of scenario can be resolved using state design pattern.
So this concrete state, let's say here I define all the operation op operation one.
Operation two operation N.
So if concrete state one has to perform only operation one.
Operation two, it can override this operation one operation two rest it will not overwrite.
It will use the default.
If state two only need operation three and operation four, it can use that right.
So likewise.
So this is state design pattern.
And we also going to use the state design pattern in our ATM.
So you can get more familiar with it right.
So this is the high level.
But if you want a detailed video you can check out the design vending machine video.
Second one was Chain of Responsibility which we are going to use.
What is chain of responsibility is chain of responsibility is any request which comes in.
It goes into a chain.
Right.
It goes different processor.
So this is what generally we call it processor.
Processor one.
If processor cannot do it this request cannot fulfill it.
It sent to another processor.
If so this is the chain.
So likewise it's a chain.
So let's say there are n processor processor n.
So let's say processor two also cannot do it.
So let's say but processor three is able to do it.
So it will return from here.
Right.
It will not go ahead of the chain processor.
One is not able to process the task.
Then it tell inside this it has an object of itself processor only that check with processor two.
So then it will call processor two and then check.
So this is a kind of chain.
I will also explain this with an ATM example, you will get to know better.
But just to recap you so that you will get okay what was chain of responsibility?
But if you need more in-depth, uh, specifically, uh, Chain of responsibility video, you can, uh,
just check out the design, uh, I think design logger system.
Right.
So now I have given you the recap of this two design pattern.
Now let's come to our design ATM question where we are going to use this flow.
Right.
This is how we always do.
Right.
Come up with the flow.
So what is the flow.
Let's say user come with its card right.
He goes to an ATM so he goes to an ATM.
So this is card.
This is user right.
He used the ATM and then he select different operation.
He insert the card.
So let's say this was user user insert card.
In the ATM right.
So in the ATM it insert card.
Once the card is inserted into the ATM, ATM will what it will do it will authenticate Pin.
It will authenticate the pin.
Once the Pin is authenticated what ATM will do is it will give certain operation operations option.
Like do you want to withdraw cash.
Do you want to deposit cash.
Do you want to check balance like any other thing?
Like what could be possible?
Do you want to change pin anything so different type of operation options.
It will give user perform one operation at a time.
Right.
Let's say it perform operation.
Perform operation.
Once the operation is performed completed.
Right.
It can either so we can have different implementation of ATM.
Once Operation one is completed, it will again go to this.
It can retry right till exit is not done.
Or for the simplification we can have one operation done.
Then you have to start the process again.
So once the perform operation is done user again goes to at this point.
So here ATM is idle.
So right.
So here I would say that.
Idle.
ATM atm is idle.
So ATM is like in um you can say that uh card acceptor.
So card is accepted.
So like kind of has card state right.
So this is the flow.
So this is a flow and a dry user is user.
Insert the card into an idle ATM.
So once the card is inserted ATM now has the card.
Now it will validate the Pin.
Once the pin is validated it will show the different operation.
Uh user will pick one of the operation, perform the operation.
Right.
And currently the flow which we are deciding with the interviewer that once the operation is performed,
operation could be.
What?
Cash deposit.
Cash withdrawal.
Uh, pin change.
Check balance.
These are all the different type of operations it can do.
Right.
So there would be implementation for each one.
So once any operation is done then user will reach to an idol again.
Again, if he has to perform any other operation, he will insert the card and perform the second operation.
So this is the ATM flow.
Understood?
Totally understood.
Now let's come to this.
Where this state design pattern and chain of chain of responsibility design pattern come into the picture.
So now using this flow you get to know that ATM has set of operations.
Now what are the set of operation.
Insert card is one operation right.
Here you can say that authenticate pin.
Authenticate pin is one operation.
What are the different operation?
It has select one of the operation.
Out of this different operation option it has to select one coin deposit withdraw pin change check balance.
So it has to select operation.
This is one method.
Then after that it has to implement the.
It has to perform the operation.
Perform the particular operation.
And that's all.
So now see there could be more also.
So now we have a different set of operations.
And can each operation be done in a single state.
No.
When ATM is idle.
So now in the idle state.
Idle state which operation can be done.
An idle state you can do insert card only.
Can you authenticate pin nine?
Can you do select operation nine.
Can you do perform operation particular operation no.
In idle state you can do only insert card.
Once the card is inserted, state will change.
Now the state will become hash card let's say ATM status change hash card.
Now in hash card, what you can do, you can authenticate the pin.
If Pin is correct.
If Pin is correct, you will move to the next state.
But anything else you can do?
No.
Now during hash card state you will do authenticate pin.
So after one pin is authenticated you move to a next state let's say selection state.
So you got it right.
Now we have a state.
Operation is divided into different states.
That's where we got to know that okay.
This seems to be a state design pattern.
Fall under state design pattern use case.
Right.
This operation state wise some operations could segregate is state operation is state operation so state
wise operation defined.
So that is the very best use case for state design pattern.
So you got it.
Where does the state design pattern comes into the picture to build an ATM.
Now where does the chain of responsibility comes into the picture.
Now I told you about different operation different type of operation cash deposit cash withdraw pin
change check balance.
Let's little bit deep dive into the cash withdrawal.
Cash withdrawal.
So you know that right.
Cash withdrawal always happen from descending order.
So let's say we have three type of cash uh three type of nodes two keynote ₹500 note and ₹100 note.
So you know right.
If you want to withdraw ₹3,000, if you have, let's say sufficient notes for this one, how what you
will get, you will get 2K1 note and ₹500 two note.
It's always in decreasing mode generally, right.
So that's where we gonna use the chain of responsibility design pattern.
So a chain of.
So we got a request.
Request either amount.
Withdraw amount.
Withdraw amount is our request.
Let's say it come 3000.
So now you have one processor is ₹2.
Processor let's say then two K is linked with 500.
After that ₹500 processor.
And after that ₹100 processor.
Right.
So it will go.
Can you fulfill me ₹3,000?
Two K will say I can only fulfill ₹2,000.
I have only one node, right?
So I will fulfill 2000.
Can you check for ₹1,000 from next processor?
500 will say that.
Okay.
I have only one node.
I can fulfill 500 out of your 1000, right?
I can fulfill ₹500.
Right?
So the remaining 500.
Can you check from here?
So let's say 100 has ten nodes.
So it says yes, I can fulfill remaining ₹500.
Right?
So they will update themselves, right?
Okay.
Now after he serve, he become zero.
After this, it will become zero.
And he took out the five node.
So this will become five, right?
So this is the chain of responsibility that if they cannot fulfill the request, they will forward the
request to the next processor with the remaining what is left?
What is left?
Right.
If this is not completed fully means it's an issue, right?
But otherwise, you got it right where?
The chain of responsibility.
Going to come into the picture.
So here in this case cash withdrawal is the use case where.
Chain of responsibility comes into the picture.
So now when I told you the scope of LD.
Right.
You have to clarify with the interviewer.
Do you have to implement both.
Can we just make an assumption that when we do cash withdrawal method implementation, we can just simply
reduce the amount.
So let's say total ATM balances three k and withdraw request is two k.
We can just simply get three k minus two k, one k is left and we have withdrawal two k.
So this is let's say I'm defining my scope.
If that interviewer says that yes yes that is okay.
Then you don't need chain of responsibility.
But interviewer say that he is very much interested.
No, no I want to understand this.
How you gonna withdraw the amount?
Then you have to build this.
Then you need a chain of responsibility design pattern also.
Okay.
So this two comes into the picture depending upon the scope the scope dependent or.
The cash withdraw.
So banana padega otherwise.
Yes.
Just assume take an assumption that uh just reduce the amount cash withdraw just reduce the ATM balance
to withdraw.
So to reduce or assumption to withdraw, then we are good.
With that being said, let's jump to the UML diagram as we already have the objects.
Right.
So we have a user, we have a card, we have an ATM.
Right.
And in the ATM we have a different states.
So let's move on to a UML diagram.
And here I have the code implemented.
I have also pushed to the GitLab.
I will give the link in my description.
You can check it out.
So shall I start or is it important to manage ATM has states.
So we have a abstract class.
ATM state.
I have created it an abstract class right of ATM state here.
So this is my abstract class ATM state method insert card authenticate pin select operation cash withdrawal
display balance return card exit all valid operations of an ATM state or it can be more.
But for a MVP minimum value product.
I have defined this right.
So it has list of operations, let's say insert card kind of let's say like this.
Now I have defined the state.
What does uh state pattern say that now you have to define the.
Different states of an object states or state.
I have kept it idle atm.
Idle state.
So this is nothing but a idle state.
In idle state.
What method?
I have implemented only insert card.
Insert card in idle state you can only insert card, nothing else, right?
So I will implement this only second method.
Second state which I have kept is has card.
Once the card is inserted it will change its state to hash card state in hash card state.
What I have done I have implemented the authenticate pin method.
Authenticate pin.
And here also you can also do an exit.
Exit and return the card also.
So this I have implemented what is the other state.
Other state which I have done is select operation.
The third state is I have kept this.
Select operation.
Right.
So let's say after the card authentication has been done.
After the authentication we have to select the operations like what are the different cash withdrawal
balance check So for this example I have just implemented two cash withdrawals and balance.
So if I have implemented a select operation method right.
Also exit and return card also because you can also exit from here also and return card also.
What are the other state which I have kept.
So now you have selected the operation.
So now it will run into perform operation state.
So in perform Operation state I have kept different different state.
Let's say for two I have kept kept cash withdrawal state.
Cash withdrawal state in which I have implemented cash withdrawal method.
Cash withdrawal method.
Also you can also exit and return card from here also exit and return card also.
One more method.
One more operation which I have operated is check balance.
So here I just have display balance method plus uh exit and remove card or return card.
Right.
So similarly in future any other new uh operation we have to add it, support it.
We can just simply add it.
Right.
So these are the different type of states which I have come up for an ATM in idle state only you can
insert card.
Once you inserted the card it will change the status to cash card, hash card and hash card state.
You will authenticate the Pin.
Once the Pin is authenticated, you will move to the selection operation.
Once the selection operation, you will select what type of operation it will do any one of the operation,
and once the operation is done, it will change it back to the idle state.
Right.
So you got it.
Like all this thing.
I will tell you the what how I implemented it as implement here.
I will tell you that is very interesting part.
So now we have an object.
So object state design pattern object ATM is our object or ATM.
What will have is we have ATM state object.
So it ATM has.
Right.
So here atm is my object.
So ATM has state right.
So this concrete method will change this ATM state current.
What is the current state of the ATM?
After each operation I will tell you how it is working.
But just first understand the UML okay.
What all object we have.
We have user right.
So we have.
User.
Correct.
And what else we have card.
What else.
We have bank account.
Right.
So now here you see in user what I have defined user has card.
User has bank account.
So what user has user has card and user also has a bank account.
And what does card has.
So user has card and user has bank account.
And what does card has card has CVV number etcetera etcetera expiry date and all this thing.
Apart from that, God also has linked with the bank account.
So you can perform.
You can update the bank account with the card also.
So it has bank account to bank account.
And what does bank account has.
Bank account has balance.
Balance.
What is the balance.
And also update balance method.
Update balance.
So whenever any withdraw cash deposit anything happen the balance will get updated.
Right.
And how ATM and user are linked.
So let's say there is an ATM room ATM room.
So in ATM room we have an ATM.
So ATM room has ATM and ATM room also has a user.
When they both come together then we can perform an operation.
So this is the UML.
And here if you see I have used the state state design pattern at this point.
So this is.
State design pattern.
Okay.
Now let's move to the.
Chain of responsibility design pattern.
So cash withdrawal right.
So now a chain of responsibility design pattern.
Now here I have defined the processors I have defined one.
Cash withdrawal processor.
Right now cash withdrawal processor has different concrete methods.
So I have taken three examples.
Those are all sour notes.
So I have, uh, 2000, 2000.
Uh, what I have taken is 2000 withdrawal processor.
2000 withdrawal processor.
₹500, uh, withdrawal processor.
And hundred rupees withdrawal processor.
And also it has an object of itself, cash withdrawal processor.
And something like next.
So it is linked to itself.
So here, if you see, I have a cash withdrawal processor.
This one cash withdrawal processor.
Cash withdrawal processor has object of itself.
So means there is a kind of like this The reference, so it has a reference of itself.
Then it has a child to 2000 withdrawal processor.
So 2000 withdrawal processor is the child of this and it has withdraw method.
Then we have 500 withdrawal processor.
It has the same withdrawal method doing operation right.
And similarly hundred withdrawal processor is one more child and it has again has a withdrawal method.
Right.
And two K is linked with 500.
500 is linked with 100 that we will define it in the cash withdrawal here.
So it has.
So this will be the driver.
So in the cash withdrawal state we have I have divided this link.
So here so 200 withdrawal processor has 500.
So 200 constructor may pass 500, right?
So 200.
In the 200 withdrawal processor I, I set the next processor of 500.
If 200 cannot process the required process the request it will use the next to initiate the next one.
For the 501 which one I have used inside 500 I have put 100, so inside 500 I have put.
The next is of 100 and inside 100 there is anything null, it's null.
Right.
So this is the complete design UML here for the ATM.
Now I will tell you the code wise but UML guys.
So state state design pattern.
State design pattern Or a chain of responsibility.
This is chain of responsibility design pattern for the withdrawal logic.
Okay so UML so let's go ahead with the code.
So ATM room okay.
Initiate ATM room initiate connect flow right.
So initialization I initialization a ATM or ATM I had kind of a statement atm idle statement atm.
Idle state.
Currently it is an idle state.
ATM is in idle state or initialize current ATM.
ATM amount 3500 atm.
Idle state or balance.
Balance 3500 or ATM.
Under.
Many do not.
So inside this I have put 2001 node, 502 nodes, ₹500, two nodes and 105 nodes.
Right.
So these are the currencies I have in my ATM.
And currently it is in idle and balance is 3500.
So this is so I have all this field in my ATM current state ATM balance and the number of nodes currencies.
Okay.
So my name is go initialize the state parameter.
Now I have also created the user.
Once I created the user, I have created the card and its bank account.
Right?
So now what?
Uh, I have created a card.
I have created a bank account and user has a bank account, let's say 3000.
So here I have created user bank card and the bank account has ₹3,000.
For now let's say now I have initialized.
Everything means I have a user.
User has a card.
User also has a bank account and his bank account.
He has ₹3,000.
We have an ATM.
ATM is currently in idle state ATM has 3500 balance and it has this kind of currency.
So I have just done the initialization process.
Once the initialization is done, let's see how I am driving it.
So I am printing the current ATM status.
It will print this balance and all these currencies which is present.
Now first step what is user is doing?
User is inserting the card.
So inside the ATM it inserted the card.
So here I go inside the insert card.
So by default is oops something went wrong.
But what is my current state idle.
So where it will go it will go into the idle state.
So insert card is implemented.
So it will print card is inserted and what it will do.
It will change the ATM state to hash card state.
So now it has changed the state to.
Has card state.
Now I am at this state.
So this is my state which is currently holding now here.
Right.
So now what?
Operation.
Next I am doing authenticating the pin.
Right.
So now what user has entered the pin.
So I'm just hard coding it.
112211.
But for the card what Pin I have defined is.
So currently I am hard coding.
It is.
It should be 112211.
Inside the card I have the correct pin I have is 112211.
So that's why I am passing in.
The flow is 112211.
So now user is trying to authenticate its card at this point right.
It is authenticating authenticating the pin.
The pin number I have hard coded into the card.
So that's why I am passing this one.
If you pass any other thing it will exit from here itself.
If you pass wrong it will come here if entered wrong.
But if, let's say it entered right.
Authenticate pin.
So currently ATM is in which state has card state.
So it will go into hash card state and authenticate pin.
I am checking the Pin whatever the user has entered and whatever the card pin is.
So here I have hardcoded it.
I am just comparing it.
If it is correct, I am moving the ATM to a next state, what is called select operation state.
Select operation state.
But if it is wrong, I am exiting the system and when I am doing the existing, I return the card and
put the state back ATM status back to idle.
So means I will return the card and put the status back to idle.
Now what is the status change to select operation State.
Now here it comes.
V so now this is status updated.
So in this uh what is the next authentication pin is done.
Now I am selecting the options.
Now different options comes in and I am picking the cash withdrawal I need to withdraw cash I pick this
operation.
So when I'm picking this operation so currently I am which state select operation.
So it will goes to select operation state.
So now I have picked what is the transaction type.
I have picked cash withdrawal.
So I am changing the status to cash withdrawal state.
So different status.
Cash withdrawal state.
Right from here I can go to different state check balance state uh deposit cash deposit state depending
upon the number of operations we have.
right?
So currently, whatever the operations has been chosen, I went to the card cash withdrawal state.
If we choose any random number, let's say he pressed some other button.
By default I am doing exit, and doing an exit means return the ATM back to the idle state.
If you perform any other random work, it can goes to idle state if.
Option if selected option is not correct.
If selected.
Option is incorrect or I can say that.
Incorrect options.
Incorrect option.
You got it right.
So what does it mean when incorrect option selected.
I will go to the idle, but if it is selected a proper operation, I will go to that operation state
now in the.
What is happening?
Let's go to the eight atm.
So now I have clicked on the cash withdrawal.
Now I am doing a cash withdrawal.
How much?
2700.
So when I go to the cash withdrawal.
So currently I'm with state cash withdrawal state.
So I will go to this particular cash withdrawal state.
So now I am doing a cash withdrawal of 2700.
So ₹2,700 I need to withdraw.
My ATM has 3500 and user has a bank account.
And we have put.
He has ₹3,000 in it.
Right?
In the initialize itself.
Now I need to withdraw ₹2,700.
So first validation I am doing is ATM has sufficient balance.
Yes, ATM has sufficient balance.
ATM has ₹3,500.
You want to withdraw less than it?
Okay.
But if it is not insufficient fund in the ATM and exit.
Second is does user have sufficient balance?
Yes, user has sufficient balance.
User has ₹3,000 and he's tried to withdraw 2700.
That's okay.
If not, then I will say that insufficient fund in the user balance bank account and then exit.
If both are good, then I am good to withdraw.
So depending upon the scope, I have to implement the cash withdrawal also.
Right.
So how I am doing a cash withdrawal.
Now if you see if I withdraw able to withdraw the cash properly, I will go to the idle state Bank.
Now I will tell you how I will doing a withdrawal logic.
But once the withdrawal is done properly, I am exiting the operation.
So right exit from operation.
Once successfully done, I am exit from operation.
So now we are looking at the implementation of cash withdrawal state.
So in the cash withdrawal state I have defined the chain of responsibility.
First is 2000 processor.
Inside 2000 processor is linked with 5000 5000 linked with 100 100 as null.
Right.
I told you like how it is linked, right?
Like this.
So now here I am calling a withdrawal processor.
Now I am calling a withdrawal processor.
Withdrawal method.
So which one will get invoked?
2001 will get invoked because first object is the 2001.
So it will invoke 2000 withdrawal processor.
Okay.
So how much I need to withdraw I need to withdraw ₹2,700.
Right.
₹2,700.
I need to withdraw.
And 2000 notes.
How many?
We have one.
So it will just.
I'm just putting a logic right so you can check this logic.
I am how I am doing it.
So what I'm trying to do is like, uh, 2000 and 12K processor.
It has one node.
It is just try to see how much it can fulfill.
So it can fulfill.
It can fulfill ₹2,000 one node.
It can give remaining is 700.
Correct.
So remaining goes 700.
So it will says that if balance not equals to zero.
Yes.
Balance is not equals to zero because 700 is still this is the balance.
So what it will call is I will call super withdraw.
Now I have called super withdraw.
In the super withdraw I have checked if next is not null is next is null.
No, next is not null because we have seen right Inside two 2000.
Withdraw processor.
I have put 5000 so it's next is not null.
So if next is not null it will call withdraw.
Now it will call withdraw of 500.
With what amount.
With the remaining amount.
The balance amount.
Right.
That's what 2000 processor has called.
Super.
With the balance amount now the same thing will do 500 has how many nodes.
Five has 200 nodes.
Right.
So how many how many it can fulfill.
It can fulfill only ₹500.
Otherwise it will become larger.
So with one node it can fulfill this ring.
But it has balance.
Yes.
How much balance left?
200.
So 500 will also do the same thing.
It will call it super.
So here in the 500 processor it will call it super withdraw.
And we see that 500 is linked with 100 100 has five nodes.
And it will use.
Yes 200 will 200 will be used.
Balance will become zero and two nodes and they will all update.
This will become zero.
This will become one.
And out of this five this will become three.
Right.
And they will update the balance also that okay 2700 has been withdraw and how much left.
So it will be the updated amount it will have.
Right.
So it will have ₹800.
Left.
And it's a bank account is a cash withdrawal.
Right.
So only 300 left.
Right.
So I am updating its balance also in the cash withdrawal states.
Right.
So I have updated its bank balance.
I have updated the ATM balance, everything I am updating.
And yes and this two processor withdraw processor are taking care of reducing the nodes.
This one.
So here let me run one flow.
This.
Let me run one flow.
Okay.
So here now you see what is that.
First is 3500.
Those are the node one 500 205 card is inserted.
Enter your card.
Pin it.
Enter the 112211.
Now it goes to the operation.
I have supported this two operation.
Out of this two operation, I selected cash withdrawal.
It goes into the withdrawal state.
Enter the withdrawal amount.
I have entered 2700 and withdrawal happen and exit.
So now what is the balance?
800 here, 800 here.
And two K note is zero.
This is zero.
500 is one and 100 is three, right?
We can also, if you want more granular level, how many two k notes used and all.
We can also do that.
But I wanted to give you a high level how it is working.
Guys.
It's very big.
It depending upon the scope which you are building, but a simple state design pattern or a chain of
responsibility design pattern.
So this question is nothing, right?
It's a very, very simple question.
Most asked question and very simple question.
But it's clubbed together, right?
So the code I have pushed this code to my GitLab.
You can check it out right video and just go through the whole code.
You will try to link everything right.
Just go through the video again if you have doubts, write or the code.
You will be able to link it properly.
Right?
And I hope this video you will find it useful and I am able to explain it in thoroughly how the ATM
will work, both detailed manner with the chain of responsibility, how cash withdrawal will work and
the overall pattern of ATM itself, user card, bank account and all those things.
Okay guys, if you like this video, please subscribe, share with your LinkedIn connection, right?
And also comment down like if you want to improve something, right.
Uh, and also guys, I have a joint membership.
I think you can uh, if you want to appreciate the work, you can definitely join it.
And that would be really supportive guys okay guys.
Thank you.
Have a good day and good night.
Bye.

--- Composite Pattern (Structural Design Pattern) ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today we are going to do a new design pattern which is composite design pattern.
Right.
So I will explain you with two questions design file system and design calculator.
And in both this question I have used this design pattern or examples of pattern is clear that you will
know when, where and how to apply this design pattern.
Our interview I am pretty much sure you will not gonna miss it like these type of questions which fall
under this category.
Definitely you will be able to solve it.
So I will not waste much of your time.
And let's start into the composite design pattern.
So let's do this right.
So here in this case what composite design pattern says that.
Object inside object.
Right.
What does it means?
Right.
Let's leave this UML for now.
Right.
It's design pattern.
First, let's understand what does object inside object means.
So you need to understand where the composite design pattern comes into the picture whenever object
inside object happens.
For example.
Consider a tree.
Right.
So now consider this tree.
So whichever problem is creating a tree like structure means it's an object inside object.
So it's a bigger object than this bigger object has this two object.
This two object has again some objects like this.
So it is constructing a tree.
So any problem which is can be designed like this in a tree will fall under composite design pattern
a.
Examples.
Consider this example let's say employee.
I will tell you different different example.
Then we will pick two solutions for it.
Right employee.
So employee let's say you have CEO.
Then CEO will have let's say director.
And let's say director will have something called manager.
Manager will have let's say uh, some you can say that, uh, you got it right, uh, engineer or you
can say that marketing.
Team inside marketing team, you can have anything else, right?
So here it might be possible that it is a end product.
End product means or you can say the end object, which it doesn't have anything beyond it right here
is leaf.
Leaf object.
So means it doesn't have any more child nodes right.
So it engineer.
So this manager let's say have only one IT engineer.
So it has IT engineer but it has a complete marketing team.
So I'm just trying to give you an example right.
What about other example.
Let's say example two consider a delivery box.
You have a.
Delivery box.
Delivery box can inside itself have a product.
Or it can have inside another box.
Similarly, the box can still have a product or it can still have a smaller box.
Right.
So this is a tree like structure.
You able to get it.
So wherever we can construct a problem or break a problem into a tree like structure, you blindly know
that that it is a composite design pattern can be used.
Okay.
So now again I will come to this again with an example when I will tell you with an example.
Let's first understand the problem.
What is the problem and how design pattern solves it.
How composite design pattern solves it right.
So first let's understand the problem and I will I will make use of this example and see this code already
I you might know this.
See this is the link GitLab link.
And here you can see that inside the low level design folder you will get design pattern composite design
pattern.
Go inside this and you will get the solution one, solution two and the problem statement right.
So let me tell you a problem statement once.
So consider this example now.
So the example is I am creating a file system example.
Let's say you want to design file system right.
So what does file system has.
File system can have file or directory.
Directory itself can have files.
Or it can also have a smaller or subdirectory.
Right.
So it's kind of a you can say that it's a tree.
But let's say we don't know about the composite design pattern.
So we know that in a file system we can either have a file direct file or we can have a directory.
So directory can again contain a file.
Or it can again contain a directory too.
So similarly it will again do the same thing right.
So let's say we want to design a file system.
So generally how we do it.
So let's say we have one file class.
Let's say we wanted to do it.
How we going to do it right.
So let's say we have a file class right.
It has a name.
And then we will create one directory class.
And we can say that directory has.
A list of files or list of directory itself.
Right.
So I'm now telling you an example.
So let's say I have a file.
So what does file Pilar's name?
So I have created a simple constructor which will update this name.
Whatever the file name, I want it to create it.
Then I wanted to use this.
I am just implementing this command ls command, you know.
Right?
So here in the ls command System.out.println.
So I am printing the name.
This is the file name.
That's a very simple class.
Similarly directory.
So now what is the directory name.
And also the list of objects.
Now here I have kept a list of object right.
So I am just first telling you the problem statement.
So you we know that a directory can contain a file or directory can contain a directory itself.
Right.
Another directory.
So that's why I am creating a list of object.
So in the constructor whatever the directory name it would be, I am putting it and initializing the
object lesson.
Now here in the LHS method, what does it do?
I am iterating over all the object list.
So now what can be the object in a directory?
It can either have a file or either it can have a directory.
So now I am putting.
If object is instance of file then I need to do a typecasting.
Okay.
Typecast to a file and then call its LHS method.
If object is an instance of directory, then typecast to the directory and then call its LHS method.
Right.
Because we don't know what is the object here.
Either it could be a file or either it could be a directory.
Right.
So this is the problem statement that we have to put if else condition here.
Instance of instance of or any other if else condition to determine what object I need to typecast into
and so that I can do a appropriate operation.
So composite design pattern solve this thing.
How?
So it says that.
You can create an interface.
Let's say I am creating an interface here file system.
So my file system is an interface right.
And here I have a LHS method.
So there will be two childs.
What it says that.
So this is my component is nothing but a file system.
And what are its two child.
First is leaf operation.
What is the leaf operation in our file system a file file.
Because once you have a file you cannot create a directory inside it.
Right.
So our leaf node is a file.
class and it will implement a RLS method.
So file system has simple RLS method and the file again the same like what we have before a file, name
a constructor to set this file name, and normal RLS method, which will just print the file name.
Now it will have a composite object here composite object.
Here we say composite object.
Composite object means which contain again itself.
So here in our case what is the composite object directory.
So here if you see the directory now we have a directory name.
And what is the file system list.
Now it contain a list of file system.
You know you notice the difference between the program one and the one which we are saying in the problem
statement.
We are having a list of object, right?
Because they don't have any parent.
Now we have created an interface file system.
Right.
And directory is also a child of file system and normal file is also a child of file system.
So that's why in the directory I am creating a list of file system.
So means directory has.
Directory has file system.
And it is one to many and it has one to many relation.
List of file system.
So in the constructor I just initialize it and in the list method.
Now see what is the difference in the list method.
What I am doing I am iterating over the file system list and I directly blindly call ls.
I don't need to do is instance of file instance of directory.
Then I need to typecast know if file system, whatever is it a object of file.
Because this is the parent, right?
And let's say if it parent object contains an object of this, it will call the LHS of this.
If it contain an object of directory it will contain the LHS of this.
Right.
So I avoided the if else condition right.
So now when I am running it.
So let's say this in this one.
So see I created a directory movie.
So I have created a directory movie inside the movie.
What I have done I have created one file border.
So this is border movie.
Let's say this is file.
Then I have created another directory inside the movie directory which is known as comedy movie.
So here I have comedy movie inside the comedy movie.
I have created one file.
I have put into comedy movie director called Hulchul.
Let's say hul chal we can put more files also, right?
Or even directory.
So now.
Now I am just calling from here.
I'm just calling ls.
So now it will call.
So let's say when I call the ls.
So this has everything.
This has the list of this.
So in the file system I have put border and this one.
So first it put border and then comedy movie.
Then once it get a comedy movie which is a directory file system object would be directory.
And then it called its ls.
So this method will be called again.
And then again it will put directory name comedy movie and then it will take out its file system object.
What is the file system Hulchul.
And then it called a file system object dot LHS.
Right.
So it will call the file name Halcon.
So you got it.
This is very simple example.
We might be using it without unknowingly that it is a fall under composite design pattern.
And how it is creating a tree.
You understood.
So this is nothing but a same what the UML diagram of object inside object or composite design pattern
is.
So let me explain you with another example of calculator which we also known as the arithmetic expression.
Right.
Let's say we want to solve like two into one plus seven.
Or it can be more complex.
So let's say this is the arithmetic expression.
So let's say if you wanted to build a calculator inside calculator we have arithmetic expression.
So we can see that.
Can it fall into the kind of tree like structure.
So we can say that, right.
So how we can represent it like it's a two then we have plus here we have one.
Here we have seven right.
So this is the tree like structure.
So definitely we can solve it using composite design pattern.
How.
Let me show you this.
So here what I have done is I have created an arithmetic expression as an interface.
So here.
I have created arithmetic expression interface.
And I have created one method evaluate evaluate method.
Right.
So now I have constructed this.
Now I need to create a leaf.
What is the leaf node inside an expression.
The leaf node is nothing but a number right so I have created one class called number.
Number.
Class.
Right.
So what does number class has number class has value.
What is the value.
127 whatever it is right I am using constructor to initialize this value.
And inside the evaluate method I am just returning the value.
Right.
Because it's a leaf node, you can't do anything, it just return the same thing right now.
What is the composite object.
So here what does UML say.
What is the composite object.
So composite object will have here in this cases expression an expression.
So this is an expression an expression can have.
So let's say this is an expression.
An expression can have a number and it can have another expression, right?
So here I am using an expression.
So I have arithmetic expression left expression arithmetic expression right expression.
So means expression has arithmetic expression.
So it will have.
So let's say this is an expression.
So it will have less left expression.
It will have right expression right expression left expression right.
And what operation we have to do multiplication plus.
So I have just taken an operation as an enum add subtract multiply divide.
So what operation we have to do I just added here.
So during the constructor of this expression here the constructor I just said what is the left expression.
What is the right expression.
What is the operation you want it to do.
And inside this evaluate method inside it Evaluate method.
What I'm doing is what operation you want to do.
If you wanted to do add, subtract, divide, multiply on the left and right expression, do the same
thing right and return the value.
So now let's see the main the driver method.
So the same thing two into one plus seven which I am trying to do two into one plus seven.
And this is how it's gonna be.
So now what I have created first I have created arithmetic expression.
And this arithmetic expression nothing but a number two.
So first I have created two.
Then I have created arithmetic expression one.
Right.
So I have created one.
Then I have created arithmetic expression.
It is a new number.
So again a number field.
So seven.
Then I'm creating an expression new expression.
So expression will have left.
So this is my left number.
My right is seven.
This one.
So this is my right.
This is my left object.
This is my right object.
And what is the operation add.
So I am passing the add operation.
Right.
So this is the first expression.
Now I am creating one more one more expression.
So I am passing two.
So this is the two.
And what is the right expression?
The first one which I have created.
So this is the right expression.
This is the right expression.
This is the left expression.
And what is the operation I wanted to do?
Multiply.
Right.
So this is my parent expression.
And on the parent expression I am doing evaluate I am calling the evaluate method right when I'm calling
the evaluate method here what it will do.
Let's go inside this of the expression.
So what is the operation?
It will see multiply because this is what I sent.
Right.
So it will see a multiply.
So it will say left expression dot evaluate.
What is the left expression.
It is nothing but a number.
So dot evaluate will return two and right expression dot evaluate.
What was the right expression.
Nothing but an expression itself.
So it will again do the same thing.
Expression dot evaluate.
Expression dot evaluate means it will call the same class evaluate method.
Now it will just see okay for this one what is the operation add.
Then the same thing left and right right.
And for the left it is a number.
It will return seven.
For right it is a number.
It will return seven and it's a plus.
So it will do plus.
So it will return eight.
Right.
And this evaluate comes here and it will do multiply.
Just think of a recursion.
If you are good in recursion, you will definitely get to know what I am doing right now here, right?
But you get the picture.
Any problem statement which can be constructed in a tree form, you know that which design pattern will
be helpful for you, right?
So this code you can definitely get it the link get link which I will also post it in the description
section.
So I will try to cover it in the design pattern.
This design pattern into the live session, so that if anybody has any doubt and wanted to clarify on
the call itself, you can use that opportunity to clarify with me, right?
So maybe in upcoming live session I will try to cover up this, uh uh, this one composite design pattern
also.
Okay, guys, I hope you enjoyed it and you able to get it thoroughly.
And good night.
Have a good day.

--- Adapter Pattern (Structural Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do one more design pattern which is known as adapter design pattern.
This is very very popular design pattern because we use this design pattern in our day to day life.
And I will tell you with so many examples, where do we use it, how do we use it?
And so many interview questions come on top of this.
And I will also tell you what type of interview questions.
Right.
So let's jump into this awesome design pattern.
And I will also tell you the coding part also.
So stay tuned and let's without wasting time let's jump into it.
So here in the adapter design pattern what.
First let's go with the definition what it is right.
So adapter design pattern is a bridge.
So it's a bridge between what between two things.
One is.
Existing interface.
And another is.
Expected interface.
So it bridged the gap between the existing interface and expected interface.
Now what does that mean.
Right.
So let's slowly go with the go into this.
But first let me create its UML diagram.
And then I will tell you with different different examples.
And don't worry about this UML diagram.
You will get it thoroughly.
I can definitely bet you right.
So here we have a client.
Then we have here.
Adapter interface.
Right.
So here let's say we have request.
So adapter interface is implemented by.
Concrete adapter class.
It implements this request.
Right.
This is you can say is a relationship.
And then we have here you have let's say.
You are adapting right.
Or you can say that existing.
Interface.
Or we can call say adapting.
This Has.
Right.
So don't worry about this UML.
As of now, I will tell you exactly what is happening, right?
But if you see here why this design pattern is also important because here we are using is a and has
a both the relationship in this one in the same design pattern itself.
So first before jumping into this, let's see a various examples where we can use an adapter design
pattern with a real world examples which we see.
Okay, let's go with the first one.
So there are a couple of examples which I can think of right.
The first one which I can think of is let's say your.
Power adapter.
And socket.
So let's say You have a socket with a square.
And you have a power adapter with oval.
Right.
So you have this oval.
So now you cannot use this.
This is your power adapter and this is your socket.
You cannot use it here right.
So we need a adapter here.
So let's say I'll use an adapter.
So it has a square here.
And it has.
Round here right.
So in this case what is adapter here or existing interface.
This is existing interface.
This is my existing existing interface or adapting.
t right.
This is my client.
Client?
Want to use adaptive.
Client want to use existing interface.
But they are incompatible.
So you cannot use power adapter directly to this socket because they are not compatible to each other.
So here client is wanting to use this socket and existing interface.
But since they are incompatible that's where we need an adapter.
So adapter implements this interface.
What client wanted and adapter know how to talk with the existing interface also.
So adapters know that how to talk with this guy.
So it become a bridge between this.
So you got it.
So this is one example.
Let's take another example.
What example can you think of is so let's say XML to JSON parser.
So let's say you have one server.
It returns XML.
And you have a client which want JSON response.
So since it is returning XML but it want JSON response, it cannot.
They are not compatible.
So that's where we need adapter here which converts XML to JSON.
And returns back to it.
Right.
So all the conversion logic also.
So when I say that conversion logic.
So you can also assume that.
So your company is talking to some external party or external component.
Right.
So what we can have is we can have one layer.
So this is our company instead of directly calling to an external component.
Right.
So we have our company let's say and this is now our external component right.
So instead of talking directly because let's say today they are sending us the data in what we wanted.
So we wanted in uh let's say one, they are also returning in one.
But what happen in tomorrow?
They change it to one hash.
It will break.
Right.
So at all the places where we are consuming this, it will break, right or not.
So let's say in this company I have ten components and ten components are consuming this.
And suddenly the external component, change it from 1 to 1 hash.
So all these changes will go into this ten components.
But let's say if you bring into an adapter right.
And even if they change it to one hash, my company is just reading from this adapter.
So this one is returning only one only.
So it is doing a massaging massaging of this one hash and converting in what company wanted.
So company wanted in this form let's say in the this form one.
Even though one hash is coming, adapter is changing it and then returning it.
Right.
So all those cases.
So this is a very important interview question.
Also how you will take care of the use cases where you are getting a request or response, which is
different from what you wanted.
We will use the adapter design pattern.
right?
So let's say another question.
And also I will tell you an uh, coding for this one is so let's say weight machine.
Right.
So let's say you have built a whole functionality for weight machine.
And this weight machine returns the weight in pounds.
So this is let's say £100 okay.
So this is good for you.
Now let's say you are going to some other place you are wanted to sell to somebody who wanted to see
the weight in kilograms.
I don't want to see in pound.
I want to see in kilograms.
Right.
So it's just a conversion.
You can't.
But everything is.
Product is ready.
So what you can do is you can bring an adapter here right.
So you can bring an adapter here.
So this is my existing interface.
Or you can say that Adaptee.
So adapter will talk to this weight.
It will convert pounds to kilograms and then show to the client.
So this is the link I will put into the description.
You can check it out.
And here I have put all the codes which I'm going to tell you.
So in the adaptee what I have is weight machine.
So it returns the weight in pound.
Okay.
Get weight in pound.
So let's say we can have a different type of weight machine.
And one of the weight machine is weight machine for babies, for babies, for infants the weight machine
is different right.
As they cannot stand.
So they have a different type of weight machines.
Right.
And let's say their weight machine is returning a weight in a pound.
So let's say it is returning £28.
Right.
So it's a very simple thing.
So it is our existing interface that this is my interface.
You call this method right.
And it will compute the weight and it will return the weight in pound.
Right.
Just an example.
Now my client want the weight in kilograms.
But it cannot use this machine directly because it will return in pound.
And my client doesn't understand the pound.
It won't.
It can only understand the kilograms how it can use this weight machine.
So here I have written one adapter.
So I have bring this one adapter.
This part.
So this part you understand right.
Weight machine.
Simple.
It's an existing interface.
Let's say I have already have an existing product right now.
My client cannot use it.
They don't understand that.
So now my client don't understand pound.
They can only understand kilograms.
KG.
So that's where I bring in the adapter.
So I have put a weight machine adapter.
Right.
So this is my weight machine adapter.
So in the weight machine adapter what method I have put in get weight in the KGS.
Right.
This is what my client expected.
Client expected the weight in kilograms.
So in this adapter interface I wrote the method which my client wanted.
Right.
So client wanted weight in kilograms.
Right.
And I have implemented the concrete adapter.
So this is my weight machine adapter impl implementation.
This is the concrete adapter class.
So here if you see what I have done is get weight in kg, I have implemented right.
So this has a weight machine.
This has a.
Which one weight machine.
The adaptive.
So this is so our adapter adapts the adaptive.
What is our adaptive.
Adaptive was weight machine.
Right now when this get weight in kilogram will be called.
So now our adapter knows how to talk with an existing interface.
So here my adapter knows how to talk with an existing interface.
So it is talking with the existing product.
Get me the weight in pound right.
It get the weight in pound then it does the conversion logic.
So here the adapter do something right for the client in so that the client can understand it better.
So it converts the pound to kilogram and then return the kilogram.
kg, right.
So now let's see the client.
So you understood this, right?
Right.
So adapter interface expose all the method which client understands.
And then in the concrete adapter it talks with the existing interface.
It knows because it keeps the object of this.
So it know how to talk with it.
So it calls it method whatever it got it do some massaging or conversion or anything else.
Whatever the business logic which is client wanted and returns what the client format is.
And here if you see the client, what is the client is client knows the adapter.
Right now it is talking with the adapter.
Adapter dot get weight in kilograms.
When it calls the get weight in kilograms, it goes to the adapter impl and in impl.
We have said that okay we want to talk with this product and it knows the how to talk with it, so it
will call its method.
Get in the pound, convert it and return it.
Easy.
More simple.
A nice, simple.
Only thing is just think from the perceptive key.
In a real world, everywhere you see, you can find an adapter example, right?
So even if you see right your mobile phone.
Right.
And your socket.
Your mobile phone need to be get charge.
So it has C type.
So your mobile phone need to be charged.
You cannot charge it directly with the socket.
So you need an adapter.
Your adapter is like your your cable.
So your cable has C type and it knows how to connect with this.
So this is here.
In this case it is adapter.
This is adaptive right or existing interface.
And this is my client.
So it falls into which category of design pattern.
So you know right.
We have three patterns.
We have creational structural and behavioral.
So this design pattern falls into which category can it fall into the structural design pattern.
Because structural design pattern says that clubbing together two or more objects to create a bigger,
bigger structure to solve bigger problems.
So here we are clubbing different interfaces, right, to solve one bigger problem.
So that's why it fall into a structural design pattern.
Right?
Okay guys thank you very much.
Good night.
And I hope this would be a useful session for you okay bye.

--- LLD of Splitwise ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And if this question has been asked to you in any of the interview, can you please comment down the
company name in which this question has been asked?
Because this is a very, very important question, as we all know, right?
So without wasting any time, let's jump into the low level design of Splitwise.
Okay, so here, to anyone who don't know what is Splitwise app, right?
So Splitwise is an app from which you can add expense.
And split between your friends.
Right.
So let's say you have added an expense ₹400 for, let's say, lunch.
And then let's say you have four friends friend one, friend two, friend three, and yourself, let's
say shreyansh.
So you can split 100 hundred rupees or any unequal amount also.
and it will.
This app will also take care of the maintaining the balance sheet.
How much?
This friend, this friend, how much you owe, how much you get back from which friend and all these
things.
So now the first step is in any of the if you are following my videos, first step is requirement.
Gathering.
And how do we require a gather the requirements is.
First define a happy flow.
Let's define the happy flow of the Splitwise app.
So let's say I have opened a Splitwise app.
I have downloaded the Splitwise app right?
So I am already present.
First I can add my friends.
Right.
So I can add friend one, friend two.
Friend three friend n I can add many friends, right?
Then what I can create is then I can create a groups.
I can create n groups.
Also I can create group one, group two, group n, right.
This is let's say my college group.
This is my let's say home.
Home expenses something right.
You can create any group.
Right.
Or let's say this is outing any groups.
Then what you will have is you can add.
Friends to a particular group only friend one, friend three and friend seven.
You have added to group one.
In group particular group you have added only friend two and friend five, right?
So you can now add friends to a particular group.
Then it is possible that you can add an expense here from here.
So expense you can add, or you can directly add an expense from the Splitwise app.
So this is possible both the way is possible that you are creating an expense inside a group, or you
are creating an expense from directly the Splitwise app itself.
It's not attached to any group, right?
So this is the happy flow.
And uh, definitely when you're creating an expense, you should have a split, a split between friends,
right?
So split between friend one, friend two.
Friend three.
You should be able to split.
Split one.
Split two.
Like this.
So this is generally the happy flow of a splitwise app or expense split app.
Now let's take out gather the requirements.
Okay, so first requirement is I should be able to add friends.
So you should be able to add friends.
Capability.
This is one requirement I should have.
I should be able to add a group.
You should be able to add or you can say that manage group.
Okay I should be able to add friend inside a group.
Add or you can say that manage friend.
Inside a group.
Okay.
This is one capability that I should be able to add a friend inside a group.
Then expense manage expenses.
Inside a group.
Inside a group I can create an expense.
And outside the group or without a group.
Okay, again, one more thing.
I should be able to split the expenses.
Split expenses.
Capability.
Now this here, you should ask a question.
That split can be of many types.
So do we need a capability like equal split.
Unequal split.
Percentage wise split.
What does it mean that let's say ₹400 can be equally split between four friends 100, 100, 100, 100?
Unequals means it is unequal amount.
Let's say ₹50, ₹100, ₹50, ₹200.
An equal amount, split percentage wise is, let's say 10%.
And let's say this is 20%, then 5%.
5%.
So split like this.
Right.
So depends.
So ask the interviewer that.
Do we need all three capabilities in the Splitwise app?
Most probably.
Interviewer will waiting for this right?
Yes I need this capability.
Equal and equal and percentage wise split because this is main.
Okay.
So we have taken care of this one also.
So generally if you see that these are the five high level requirements which we can think of.
Right.
And one more thing is balance sheet.
Balance sheet of each user.
Right balance sheet of each user.
We wanted okay.
Because that is what uh splitwise does right for each user.
So some kind of balance sheet you need to maintain.
So that's why we need to have a balance sheet for each user, so a requirement is clear.
Are you clear with the requirements?
Right.
A bit simpler right.
Now let's go one level more deeper.
Right.
Before jumping into our step two, let's say come to our step two.
What is the step two after step one requirement gathering.
What are the step two object identification.
Of object flow.
First is definitely splitwise because this would be the driver app driver object.
So Splitwise.
What would be the second one?
Second one would be definitely the friends.
Or you can say that members or user.
I will let's say let me call it user then.
So this is done.
This is done.
Then we have a group.
Then friends is just nothing but an added.
Then expense.
And then we need a split capability.
So we will let's, uh, let's put into a question mark here.
Split.
Right.
And anything else.
So add friend group expense and expense capability equal equal split.
Unequal split so that we will cover in the spread and the balance sheet.
Some kind of balance sheet we wanted to maintain.
Right.
Let's say let's discuss more on this.
So these are the high level objects which I can identify from my flows and requirement gathering.
Right.
Now before going to the UML diagram first let's understand this thing right?
How does Splitwise works?
Actually, I will tell you, this thing is very important.
Very, very important.
So what happens when you create an expense?
Let's understand from that perspective.
Right.
So first thing I wanted to cover is what happens.
When expense is created.
And another question I will cover is balance sheet.
So we will little bit more deep dive into this tool.
And this will help us in designing us the Splitwise.
So let's say I'm creating an expense.
So I am creating an expense let's say lunch.
Okay so this is my title and I'm amount is ₹400 right.
And paid by is let's say I am paying it Shreyansh.
Now I want to split between my, uh equally between all my friends.
Right?
So I have, let's say I want to split.
So I am splitting.
So now what are the three types of split we can have is equal, unequal or percentage.
Let's say I am using a equal type.
So let's say I have friend one, friend two, friend three and myself shreyansh.
So it will split equally right.
Now let's see here.
Notice that I have my friend name and amount how much he owes.
Okay so each friend how much the amount they owe for this payment.
Right.
So this is split equally.
So now this is all happening at UI layer.
So at UI you will select this.
And now when you say that okay create expense API.
So this is create expense.
So we get this information.
Okay.
This user.
Oh this amount.
This user.
Oh this amount.
This user.
Oh this amount.
This user.
Oh this amount.
And that type is equal.
Similarly, the percentage wise what will happen in the percentage if it was a percentage right.
If it was a percentage there are two ways.
Let's say again ₹400.
But I choose a percentage wise.
Then each friend you will assign a percentage 5%, 5%, something like 80%.
So it should all be 100%.
But you will come up with a percentage and maybe possible.
So now at here there are two scenarios in the UI.
They will just send the percentage to my server or UI will compute the amount and then will send it
right.
So we will discuss both the scenarios.
How to take care of both right.
Either UI will based on the 405%, it will compute the amount or it will just send the percentage and
the server will compute the amount.
Right.
So but you got it right.
What we get.
So we get this splits of each friend comes a friend amount percentage.
Right.
So this one I wanted to tell you okay.
This will be very much useful.
Like just keep this in mind.
This is very very useful okay.
Second thing I want to talk about balance sheet.
Right before we jump into the balance sheet let's look out the view in a split by let's say I am opening
the split wise, right?
I have opened a split wise app.
So what does it shows to me?
And this is my friend.
Let's say Shubham is my friend right?
So let's understand the view let's say for each user.
So now here user are estranged.
And what does it show to me?
Like total amount.
Oh or get back whether I am in negative or whether I am in positive, whether I have to give money or
whether I have.
I am asking money, right?
And it will give me a drill down.
Okay.
Friend one.
Friend two.
Friend three.
This is how much you have to give ₹100 to this friend, right?
You have to give means.
Oh, Shreyansh, get back from friend to ₹500.
I get back from him.
But for friend one I have to give ₹100.
Shreyansh Shreyansh oh I also oh two.
Friend three is like ₹100 like this.
So now if you see that what I wanted to show you that each friend, each user has their own view, right?
So most probably they might be storing that.
Okay.
User one have each this kind of data structure where each friend.
So here in this case let's say it's me.
Let's say I have an information about my each friend that whether I have to get back or whether I have
to give or, oh, whether I owe money to this friend or whether I get back the money from him.
Right.
So from each user, I have this information.
Okay.
So just wanted to give a highlight on the balance sheet when I will, uh, design this object, you
will get better understanding.
Just keep this in two things in mind.
Right.
How the expense is created split equally percentage wise.
What data we get from the input and during balance sheet.
How what is the view.
Okay.
So now let's jump into the UML diagram.
And guys I'll show you the coding also.
And so this is my I have completed the coding also and I have pushed the coding into this GitLab link.
Right.
So here I think you know already know about this GitLab link I have put into the description.
So go to the low level design folder.
Inside this go to the design split files.
You will find the coding.
Okay I'll put it into this one description.
So let's go with the UML and always start with I will start with the like bottom up approach.
So I am going with first defining an expense.
So let's define an expense.
So this is my expense right.
So let me show you also in parallel.
So expense what I have put expense ID.
ID some description.
Let's say I have you can give some description, let's say lunch.
Dinner description.
Then I have put amount.
This expense is how much amount.
Double.
Amount.
Then who paid this.
Who paid this.
Then I have a user paid by.
Right.
So we will create this class.
Uh, after this then I have put a split type.
Right.
So I told you right now during expense creation, you will define what split type you are using for
this expense percentage wise equal or this one.
So I am defining an enum.
So I'm defining an enum.
Split type.
Whether equal.
Unequal or.
Percentage wise.
So here I have that split type.
Split type.
And the splits.
Right.
Because I told you that we get this information also this this is nothing but a splits.
And what does the splits has split has friend or user.
This is user.
And how much money because may be possible that in equal in equal we will get money like or unequal.
Also we will get an money but percentage wise we will get a percentage.
Yeah.
So we have a list of split right.
So what is that split?
So in split currently I am putting user and amount.
So what is the user?
Who is the user and.
Amount.
Right.
So in the split you can also put the percentage also integer like percentage.
You can easily expand it.
Let's say.
So currently what I am taking a use case.
That client will compute.
This client will compute this amount and send me right.
So client will compute this amount and send me.
But you can also expand it easily that no client will send me percentage itself.
And if they send you percentage you can just keep like what percentage they send.
So currently I have implemented that okay.
Client will compute the amount and send me.
Right.
But you can easily add a percentage also.
So expense has splits.
So expense has.
Splits right.
So this enum is present.
So that's pretty much we have in the expense class right.
So this pretty much we have okay.
Now we just need to create a user class right.
Because we are using users okay.
So let me create a user here.
Starting.
Okay.
So we will define user more.
But let's say that expense has user.
So expense has.
User also okay till now we are good.
Okay, so now let's come to this, uh, another part.
So now we have created an expense.
Now, if you see that we have to maintain this expense also.
Right?
We have to create, update and everything, let's say possible.
So generally, instead of putting into everything into expense, right.
I treat expense as a dumb object which just keep information and all the controlling will happen through
generally which I prefer is.
Expense controller.
Right.
So in expense controller I will show you what happens.
So here expense controller will create an expense.
It is taking that responsibility of creating an expense.
So it is creating an expense right.
And if in future it want to update, you can um expose the API to update it also.
Right.
So here it is helping creating an expense.
Right.
So now this is the expense controller, right?
So now this is very, very important which I use.
Right.
So now let's see this.
So whenever somebody is calling hey expense controller create an expense for me right.
So expense controller create expense.
So now somebody is calling expense controller.
Let's say it.
So expense expense can be created from two place we saw right.
Expense can be created from a group.
Expense can be created directly from the Splitwise app.
And I told you this expense creation request what all it has.
It has this information.
So amount paid by split type split wise a percentage equal or unequal.
And the splits.
So expense controller get all this information Right.
And based on the split type.
So here I will define.
Expanse.
Split.
This is my interface.
Here I have put validate.
Validate request I'll tell you what is this and what all it currently have.
Equal split.
Unequal split.
Percentage split.
And they have to implement this method.
I will tell you how they will use it.
So now let's say expense controller.
Expense controller is exposing the create expense method right.
So here I am exposing Create.
Expense method.
Create.
Expense method.
Right.
What does this method will get?
So create expense.
Now you know that okay.
When I'm creating an expense, when I'm creating an expense I will get okay amount.
Who paid this right.
And the splits.
His friends may not split.
Friend one let's say ₹100.
Friend two ₹200.
Friend three ₹300.
Let's say right.
And also the split type.
He equal unequal percentage.
So generally this is passed by the client during create expense.
So create expense.
So I am getting this all information.
Who paid?
What is the split wise type.
Equal unequal or percentage.
All the split details or split details is nothing but a this this friend, a friend expense amount,
total expense amount, description and expense ID right?
So now based on this expense controller will go to expense split using a factory pattern based upon
the split type.
Based upon the split type, whether it is equal, unequal or percentage, it will goes to a split factory.
So it will also has.
Split factory.
So I have defined a split factory right.
So this is my.
Split factory.
So expense controller will goes to split factory and it will say that hey I got split type as equal.
Let's say I got, uh.
Or let's say I got unequal.
Hey, I got unequal split type.
Can you give me an object of it?
So it will return the unequal expense split.
Right.
So this one will return it one object.
So it will return the object of this one.
Okay.
Now expense controller.
Got it.
Now expense controller.
What it will do is it will validate the request first.
Hey now it will call this one and validate the request.
Now it will pass this split and split type and amount.
So validate request.
So I am getting two thing split list evenly.
I'm getting this information concept amount divide.
And the amount total amount.
So so so let's say for example so but the client has given us this.
So I need to validate right I need to validate.
So based upon that split factory.
The split factory.
Split factory.
Unequal.
So validate request or unequal.
Now unequal will check sum is equal.
So then so plus 200 plus 100 600.
This is not a valid.
So it will fail this right.
Percentage wise you can also add like okay five percentage ten percentage.
So all percentage.
Validation all percentage should be accumulated to 100% right.
And amount compute.
Will be validated right.
So generally this validate request you can expand this validate request.
Or you can say that compute amount.
You can also have.
So that's why I was saying you right percentage.
Depending upon the interviewer, the interviewer said that no, no.
From a client you will always get an amount after converting an amount, then we are good with this.
We are good with only validate requests like whatever the client is passing to us only we have to validate
equal case equal split class call.
So everything is equal sorry equal.
And it is equivalent to the total amount unequal.
Everything is.
After summing up all the split is it equals to this or not okay other client other you will get only
percentage.
Then you can easily expand this class to add a compute amount.
And from the percentage one you can compute the amount and fill it.
Fill it up in the split.
This one, if you get only percentage, you can easily compute and fill it up here inside this class
itself.
Right.
So this is very easily extensible now scalable, very scalable.
In future any other come you can do it okay.
So.
No expense.
Great.
Almost.
And we have defined the split also.
Okay.
Now let's move forward.
User okay.
What does user has.
So see user has three things user id user name and its balance sheet.
Let's define it.
User id.
String.
User name and user expense.
Balance sheet I have put it I'll tell you this class.
So user expense balance sheet.
Why?
Why I have put this here.
Balance sheet.
Every user, every user is maintaining their view.
Sorry, friends.
So something like this for each user.
Let's say Shreyansh knows everything.
Like okay for his friends.
How much I have to take from this friend, right?
So for each user there is some balance sheet.
So for each user this is for each user there is something called a balance sheet.
Right.
So this is my user.
This is my user this one.
And each user has its balance sheet this one.
So that's why I put a balance sheet here right.
Similarly for user two it will maintain its balance sheet like this.
Right.
So user balance sheet maintain friends.
So that's why for each user, maintaining its friends balance sheet.
Okay, so now can there be only one user in the system?
So let's let me put it a red mark that we have.
We will define it more.
But before this can there be only one user?
No, there can be many user.
Right.
And generally I prefer to write controller.
So I will write user controller.
User controller will have list of user.
Right.
So here I am creating a user controller.
User controller has list of user right.
So it has.
It has list of user and it will perform the Crud operation.
So let's say from the Splitwise app you want to add user remove user update user.
Everything will be happen through controller not directly direct on the user and on the Splitwise app.
And on the Splitwise app.
You have this user controller user controller object.
So Splitwise has user controller.
Okay so user.
User but at the expense of Splitwise or group.
Right.
Balance sheet.
Split group okay.
So now let's see I'm creating a group here.
A group group A group has group ID right.
So I have a string ID some group ID group name or group name.
Right.
Or group group members add.
user add so it will have list of user.
Okay so group has list of users.
Plus what else.
Group of expense.
Create flow from inside a group.
You can create an expense.
You can create many expenses.
So.
It is also has list of expense.
Expense list.
Click on expense group.
And definitely it has to create an expense.
So it has expense controller also expense controller.
Expense controller.
So this all I have in a group group ID name what all the members in a group you can add a member from
a group you can remove a member from the group, not from the split file a ARB user group.
User group.
So that's why I don't want user controller inside a group.
Okay.
Split remove groups.
So group is maintaining their own list of user.
It can add or remove from that only.
Then I have expense list.
Expense may add or remove groups and expense controller to manage those expenses.
So group.
Has expense controller.
Right.
And group has users also group has a list of users.
So let's say I'm taking a.
Group has list of users members or group also group has expenses.
So let's say I'm just taking out this thing from.
From this expenses, this group apart.
Now there can be many groups.
A group?
No, there can be many groups.
Right?
So definitely we need group controller.
Or group controller.
Group controller has nothing but a list of group.
So it will have list of group.
It has so group activity.
Create a group.
So means it has group controller.
It has group controller.
See I don't want to put a list of group inside an Splitwise app because otherwise responsibility will
come to a Splitwise app.
Splitwise app is a just a driver.
It doesn't have to have logic like which group I have to update and call the method.
It will just delegate the task to group group controller.
Hey, you take care of all the Crud operation of groups.
I will just call you.
Any change in the logic, you will take care of it, right?
So Splitwise has user controller, group controller and we are done with the group.
Balance sheet.
The interesting part, right.
Just understand this.
Okay, so now we have told that inside a user each user is maintaining the balance sheet friends balance
sheet or its balance sheet.
And I told you how the data structures looks like for each user.
For each user they are maintaining a balance sheet.
Okay friends, get back to it now.
This friends get back now or something like this.
And what are the total amount?
Total get back amount.
Total payment I have made total my expenses.
This all information it has to maintain in a balance sheet and a drill down level also.
Okay.
Total.
Get back.
I have ₹500.
But kiss kiss say.
Then we need.
Okay.
This friend you get back this much.
Okay.
Total o 400.
I have to give 400.
To whom?
So then.
Friend.
Wise information we needed.
So that's where I have come up with this.
I have come up with this.
Uh, let me show you.
Balance sheet.
Yeah.
User expense, balance sheet.
Right.
So here.
User expense balance sheet.
What does I have I have.
User versus balance.
So for each user, for each user I have to maintain information about its friends versus their balance,
how much I need to get back.
And no.
So that's why I am maintaining a map of user versus balance.
Right.
So some object.
And what is this balance?
This balance is nothing.
What two information get back and oh.
So here balance I have is amount or amount.
Get back.
So.
Amount or.
Double amount.
Get back her friends.
For example.
Shreyansh.
User.
Maintain a balance sheet.
User.
So my friends.
Friend.
One Friend one.
Map your balance.
Balance object.
Balance object has.
Get back!
And.
Oh!
What?
Is friend say.
I have to give or get back.
So it depend upon the amount.
I have 200 amount here or 300 amount here.
So I can take out like this.
Okay.
This is the map.
So for Shreyansh it has maintaining its balance sheet.
In the balance sheet it has user.
Okay.
This user what is the balance.
So does it chance is asking money or it has to give get back or.
Oh right.
For each user I for each of my friend, I know whether I have to get back or whether I have to owe money.
Right?
So that's why I am maintaining this balance for each of my friend, right?
So I will say that instead of object for better understanding.
Friend balance sheet my friend balance.
So it is my friend balance.
So each friend.
What is the balance I have to oh I am owing the money or I have to get the get back the money from him
or her okay.
What else.
So I have a total expense.
So Splitwise is like what is the.
Total?
My expense.
Some kind of Uber level?
Uh, you can say that balance sheet, right?
Total payment.
I have done total payment.
Payment expense.
Right.
Then total owe.
Total or drill down.
Uh, user friends.
From how much?
Friend to whom I need to give.
double total.
Get back whether I will get back.
Total.
Okay.
Total chance.
You get back ₹1,000.
But if I want to drill down, I can iterate over this map.
Okay, so this is.
I put a high level total.
Get back.
Total low.
Total amount.
Total expense.
Right.
And if I want to drill down of each friend I will go this and check their balance.
Okay.
Whether I will get back or whether I owe.
Right.
So user has each user maintain their balance sheet.
Right now there can be.
So now here if you see I have bring down another controller balance sheet controller.
Because why this is the very very important part.
How you will update how you will update this balance sheet as soon as when we create an expense.
So expense should be able to update this right.
So now let's say a use case user is going inside a group.
And from inside a group it is creating an expense.
And from creating an expense it has created the expense let's say split equally.
So controller will take a responsibility that as soon as the expense is created, it should update the
balance sheet of a user.
So there is certain logic.
So that's why I put balance sheet controller.
So balance sheet controller update this and it holds the business logic.
It holds the business logic expense controller call this.
Okay.
So now let's see this understand with this expense controller group say from a group I am creating an
expense.
So and I'll send that okay.
This is the split type.
These are the split details which I got from the client and all this thing.
So it will first go to Split Factory.
Hey, give me the object and it will then first validate the request okay.
The amount and all split amount and total amount.
Everything is fine or not.
Or if it do computation, if anything is required then it will create the expense.
It will create the expense.
Now once the expense is created, it need to update the balance sheet right of the users.
So that's the logic I have put inside this one.
So now it is updating the balance sheet right.
Because expense is created it need to update the balance sheet.
I will tell you this logic.
You can write another logic based upon your need, but I will tell you what I have written.
I am what is my logic?
So expense controller is calling balance sheet controller and it is updating the balance sheet.
So this is the complete UML.
I will just tell you the logic of this, right?
I'm going to explain you this logic, but this is the complete split wise.
Now let's jump into the balance sheet controller.
Balance sheet controller.
How it will update the balance sheet.
So see now what data structure I am using is for user one.
It is maintaining all their friend list user two, user three, user four for example.
And each user is maintaining user by balance.
And balance is what is amount and get back.
So it will have get back.
Or oh user one owes money to user two or user one.
Get back from user two.
Right.
Get back.
Oh get back.
Oh.
Similarly I am taking two.
User example User two.
User two.
Maintaining.
User one.
User three.
And let's say user seven.
Right.
So it will have its get back.
And oh and also what all information we are putting into the balance sheet.
Total expense total payment total or total get back.
So it has like total expense total user expense.
Total payment total.
Get back.
Total.
Oh.
Now let's take one example.
Let's say user one made a payment of ₹500 and split.
Equally between user one and user two.
Right.
So now in this case what the data will come to expense.
Expense amount.
₹500 okay.
Split type.
Equally.
And split details.
Uh, split details.
Split details will be like you.
One, ₹250.
You two ₹250.
Right.
Because 500 equally you.
This is given by the UI of the expense controller.
Balance sheet.
This expense credit card.
Right?
And now it is calling balance sheet controller.
Hey, update the balance sheet of this users.
So now.
It is split.
So user one.
User one is a total expense.
Expense for user one is same.
User one, user two, user two, or let's say paid by is paid by user one to user one.
User two.
User one is asking ₹250.
So I will go to this user and see it's okay, get back the amount first is zero.
I will increase it to 250 plus 250.
Now I am asking ₹250 from the user.
Right?
Total payment.
Payment.
This is.
The payment is paid by me.
So I have increased the total payment ₹500.
Get back.
Total mirror increase 250 000.
Now O is zero.
Similarly, I will also do update the user to.
So user two now owe money to user one.
So user two it owes to 50 to user one.
Right.
And it's got total expense.
I will update okay 250 because this much it's oh total payment zero.
He hasn't made the payment.
User one made the payment total.
Get back zero.
Does he get back anything from anyone?
No.
Get back.
Oh right.
And total oh 250 because this is you understand how this what I am doing actually in the balance controller.
So here I am from the expense controller I am getting who paid the money.
What are the splits?
Splits?
I'm getting this splits.
Who paid the money and Amount.
Total amount.
So now first I'm doing is I'm iterating over the splits.
I'm iterating over the splits.
First I am updating.
Right.
So if this is the same user, if this is the same user user one.
If this is the same user I'm just updating his total expense.
Right?
Otherwise if it's a different user.
So I am doing two things.
First thing is I am updating this also and I am also updating this.
So here if you see I am first updating the balance of the paid who paid it.
So user one paid.
So I'm updating the balance of the paid.
You can check out this logic.
I the similar what I have told you right?
So I'm iterating over the friend and I am increasing the get back amount increasing the get back amount.
How much this much Right.
Similarly, I'm updating the balance sheet of the O user.
User two and goes to the user one because he paid.
Right.
And what I'm updating I am updating the O balance.
I am updating the O balance amount to plus O amount.
₹250.
And also I will update its total.
Uh, total your expense.
Total o right.
Total o total expense.
Right.
So there.
So this is my logic of maintaining the balance sheet.
Right.
But this is the total overall view of an splitwise.
Right.
This is a complete flow.
Right.
And in Splitwise they will follow up.
Question generally is can you do the simplify of expenses.
This is most of an algorithm based I will not cover today maybe in next session.
So it has an algorithm.
So generally we use graph.
If you see the CEO of Splitwise, he mentioned in the Quora that to simplify of expenses feature they
use graph.
And graph can be easily applied to this kind of data structure.
So I have completed the simplify also.
I'll tell you later.
But for today this is everything about Splitwise.
I hope you find it very useful.
Go and check out this code and you will get to know once you will do yourself dry, run it and it would
be very easy.
All we have to comment like how we maintain a balance sheet and all those things, right?
So I hope uh, please share with your connections guys.
And please do comment do like as much as you can guys.
Please share it with your connection.
I really need all the support from you and good luck guys.
If you if this has been asked in your interview or going to be asked in an interview, just pour though.
Okay guys, have a nice day.
Bye.

--- Builder Design Pattern (Creational Design Pattern) ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today I will tell you a very important design pattern which is builder design pattern.
I'll tell you about its, uh, problem.
What is this problem and how we resolve it.
I'll show you the real world solution like.
And we are using it day to day like you might have heard of Stringbuilder, right?
You are using it, right?
So Stringbuilder is based upon totally on the builder design pattern.
And the third and very most another, uh, so many people have confusion regarding it is like builder
versus decorator.
If you see my decorator design pattern video and check out the comment section, you will see many people
have asked that can it be solved through builder or not?
Right.
So I know that why this confusion happens and I'll try to clarify on today.
Right.
So now without wasting time, let's jump to it.
So first of all, you already know that builder design pattern is nothing but a creational design pattern.
And what is Creational design pattern?
Creational design pattern helps in creation of an object, so it is a Creational design pattern helps
in creation of an object, right?
I'll tell you its definition later, but first let me explain what are the problem it is solving.
So let's see the problem.
So consider any use case or any object where there are lot of optional fields.
So I have think of a student.
So let's say inside a particular student roll number is only mandatory.
This is only mandatory rest.
All are optional.
Rest all are optional.
This is optional.
This is everything is optional.
Only mandatory is roll number and currently I have taken only six seven uh, properties.
Let's say this in real.
This students have around 50 properties, right.
And all are optional except roll number.
So now how it's constructor will gonna be look like.
So let's say if this has so many optional parameters and its constructor, let's say first of all it's
if you have so many parameters, if you have so many properties itself, our constructor would be become
huge, right?
So we cannot have constructor like this.
So one thing is we have a very big constructor parameter list.
Because of so many optional fields right.
So this is one problem which we can think of.
What another problem can come because of this so many optional thing.
So this is another way is another problem.
Which have come is, let's say instead of one big constructor, I can have multiple small, small constructor.
I know that only roll number is mandatory.
So let's say I am creating one student.
I am only creating a student with roll number and age.
So I need only this constructor.
I don't need to add more parameter.
So now let's say another student I am creating, but I am student creating with roll number, age and
name.
So I created another constructor.
So let's say I have another use case roll number father name mother name.
Somebody is putting while creating a student roll number.
Father name mother name.
So they have added one more constructor.
So we see that because of this optionals, one more issue comes is that the number of constructor can
become huge, right?
And there is one more problem with this is like let's say if you are about to create one more constructor
Student roll number.
Integer.
Roll number.
And let's say a string.
Father name.
And instead of mother name, you want to use student name.
Name.
Can you use it?
String name.
Can you use it?
No.
It will throw compilation error because signature is same of both the constructor int string string.
Even though here it is mother name and here it is student name.
But still signature is same and compilation will fail.
So there are lot of issues can come in when you are using an then when there are lot of optional fields,
right.
So we need to find a way to handle those.
So that's where builder design pattern comes into the picture right.
So this was the problem I hope this problem is clear right guys.
What problem can happen because of this.
Optional fields.
And just these are 456 fields.
Just think about 100 fields, right?
It can cause a lot of problems.
So that's where builder design pattern comes into the picture.
So now let me tell you how it solved it.
Right.
So now let's come see the builder design pattern.
Okay I'll tell you within code itself also.
And I have pushed this code here.
This is my GitLab in the description and at the channel homepage also you can see.
So in go inside low level design design patterns and you will see builder design pattern.
Okay so first of all what is this definition.
So as you already know builder design pattern is nothing but a creational design pattern right.
And it also says that it is a step by step object creation process object creation.
So it creates an object step by step right.
So now question comes hey what do you.
What do you mean by step by step?
Object creation.
So, for example, take a house.
What?
So this is a very big object house.
House is a very big object.
So this house is composed of roof window, door right.
Walls let's say.
So what we can do is step by step.
So let's say before it will say that hey add roof.
So till now this house is constructed.
No.
Till now it is some in mediator form right.
Then it will say that hey add window.
Then it will say add a before window.
It will say that a add wall.
Add wall.
And then it would say that add door.
So you are saying step by step we have to perform something at door, right?
Then it will say that at window.
And once all done, then we will say that build.
Now it will make a house to us.
So you got it right.
Step by step.
So we first created, let's say wall.
And then second we have added a roof to it.
And then we have added door.
Then we have added window.
And then we are saying that hey now call the build method and then it will return a house actual house.
This is the object we wanted but at a particular each step.
Currently it is some mediator form.
Or you can say that in the builder form.
So in the builder form after adding a wall, it is still in a builder object form.
It is still in a builder form, builder form, builder form.
And when the ultimate build method is called it Return the house object.
Don't get confused.
Just understand this.
What I mean by step by step.
So I wanted to create a big object house.
But we have divided into different steps.
These steps are thing as a method.
So different methods.
So after each method it is in in some mediatory form right.
When all the methods are completed which is required to complete this house.
After that we call the build and we get a house.
Okay.
So before jumping into the builder design pattern, I want to show you the string builder.
What we have discussed as of now.
Methods.
Mediator form.
Mediator forms.
I will tell you with this one.
So here just see that.
Let's open the string builder.
Yeah.
So this is the string builder.
The string builder is nothing but a based upon builder design pattern.
So here if you see that in string builder.
So we have certain methods.
So here if you see that it has certain methods append method.
Right.
It is just consider those as an steps.
So delete character add delete right.
So after every step after every method does it giving us a final object.
No it is giving us returning us certain military object.
So what is that Mediatory object?
String builder itself so means builder itself.
So let's say if this is house and we have making a house builder some builder where we have put this
methods add wall, add door, add small small methods.
So what would be the return type in this case house builder itself.
You got it.
So see dot append what it is returning string builder itself.
And when all the methods are done and when we call build method.
Or it can be any name, let's say a final method or you got it right build method.
I just say that yeah.
Now build it so it will return me the actual object.
So here in the example of Stringbuilder, when we do two string, it will return me the actual object.
What was the actual object is new string okay.
So you got it.
What I mean by step by step okay.
So now let's jump into that.
How for our student example how this will work.
So let me use an example.
So we have an student object.
So you know that what was the challenge with the object.
Because we have a lot of optionals.
So here I have certain mandatory field and lot of options.
So now in the constructor you will see the first difference in the builder design pattern.
The first difference is I am not creating a constructor with all the parameters, or I am not creating
multiple small small constructor.
Right?
What I did is I passed the builder object, right?
So means here in the student constructor what object I have student builder object.
Right.
And all its mandatory and optional fields are getting filled from this.
This dot roll number equals to builder object dot roll number like this.
Right.
So one advantage we got is like we don't have to put lot of parameters inside the constructor.
And also we don't need a small, small constructor, right?
Whatever the values builder had, it were filled up.
Okay, now one thing, another get cleared with this is like builder will have all this parameters also.
That's why that's how we are able to fill the respective fields right in that so means in the student
builder.
Let's say whatever whatever the object, whether it's a house, then you have a house builder, you
have a car, you have a car builder, you have a pizza, you have a pizza builder.
So here in our example student, we have to create a student builder.
Right.
So I told you that since we student builder is the one which is getting passed to the student constructor
means student builder has all the fields, all the parameters.
So let's check the student builder.
Yeah.
So here if you see that the student builder has all the parameters.
So this is one more disadvantage.
So this is the disadvantage of builder design pattern.
There is a certain code duplicacy and the line of the code gets increased.
So student also has the parameters here.
And student builder also has this all parameters because we have to pass it to the student constructor
okay.
That is one disadvantage.
So now here.
So this can be an either interface or either abstract either interface or either an abstract.
And we can have a concrete builder we can define.
So let's say a student right.
So I have constructed two let's say engineer engineer.
Student builder and MBA A student builder so we can have multiple builders, right?
Student builder.
It's an interface or abstract.
We can have different type of builders.
Okay.
So now see this what I told you in the builder that we have steps.
A small step.
What this steps is nothing but a method right.
So in our house example add wall.
Add roof, add door.
These are the methods right.
But in our student what are all the methods set roll number.
So what are the fields which we have.
Set roll number.
Setters set roll number set.
Age.
Set.
Name.
Set.
Father.
Name.
Set.
Mother name.
Set.
Subject.
So all this setter methods.
Right.
And just to differentiate between an engineer student builder and MBA student builder, the one set
subject method, I have just differentiated it just to show you that we can have multiple builder also.
right.
So in the engineer student builder the subject is DSA, OS Computer architecture.
And in the MBA student builder we can have economics, business study, operation management.
Okay.
So they have certain methods.
They have certain methods.
Certain methods set rule number.
Set subject set age.
Similarly it is also had certain set rule number set its own subjects set age.
Right.
And what I told you right here in each method.
Currently it is in mediatory form.
And it would be what would be the return type builder itself.
So here if you see that for all the return setters, what is the return type builder itself.
Right.
We set it and return the builder itself when we return the final object during build method.
So we will have build method.
So we will have build method and build method will return the final object.
What is the final object.
Student.
So here if you see that I created a build object build method.
Build method is returning the final object a student.
So new student and pass the builder.
And from this builder this parameters the final students get filled up.
Okay.
Second layer got properly clear this builders right.
So this is where this is the most important part.
Like so we are creating a builder.
So which has similar properties.
And it has this methods.
And these methods return types are builder itself.
Right.
And we have a build method which ultimately returns the student in this case.
And there become a third layer, which is nothing but a director, which is called as director.
So director is nothing but which calls this methods in a particular manner.
So I told you that we have like first we have to call, let's say add wall, then we have to put roof.
Then we have to put door.
Who will who will direct it.
Director will direct it.
Right.
So we are not we are just a student.
Right.
So for us it's a setter method.
So we can call in any manner.
So but director can take a responsibility.
Right.
Okay.
In which order.
I can have to call the method.
And after that when that particular, uh, object is done I can call a build method.
Right.
So director method is the one which has the builder object and then it calls the method.
So let me show you the director method here.
So director method has a builder Whether it can have, let's say, engineering student builder or MBA
student builder.
Right.
So based upon a builder, it will construct a student.
How in step by step.
So here it is calling a method.
First let's say this it is storing the engineer student builder.
So this method will get invoked.
So now it is calling hey call set roll number.
Now set roll number is builder itself.
Then for this builder set age set name set subject.
And ultimately we'll call the build.
And then it will return the student.
So you got it right in this our student use case.
There is no sequence right.
But you got it right.
What is the director uh usage.
It can provide you help you in the some business logic and sequencing also.
Hey call this step one.
This is step two.
This is step three.
Now my complete object is done.
Now call the build object.
So similarly for MBA, put a roll number.
Put an age put name.
Hey I also need another name and another name for MBA.
So I have added that.
But for engineering student I don't need I didn't added that and last it calls the build.
So till this point everything is mediator.
It's a builder only and last it will call the student.
Okay, you got it.
The use of director director is the one which guides like, which invokes the method and calls the build
method and ultimately returns the object to the whom to the client.
So now client will call director right and pass what student he wanted.
So now if you see the client method clients calls to director it created director one, director two.
And for the director one it passed engineering student.
And for the second director I passed MBA student.
All it has to do is create student, right?
What it called create student.
That's all.
Nothing much.
Now, if you see that client looks very easy.
Hey, just create me a student.
Director will do that, okay?
You have engineering student.
Okay, I'll call its method.
Whatever it's required to create an object of this engineering student.
I will call this method and then call, build and return you an object.
It will say hey okay it is MBA student.
I will call this method.
And whatever methods are required to build an MBA object, maybe step one.
Step two.
Step five.
Not all.
I will create an object I'll call build and then return it.
You got it right.
Easy.
So this is your builder design pattern.
And with this one I'll tell you why it is getting so much confused with decorator.
It's the whole culprit is bizarre example.
I'll tell you why.
So first of all, builder design pattern is your Creational design pattern.
Creational design pattern means it is responsible for creation of an object.
And decorator design pattern is your structural design pattern.
Structural design pattern is like helps you in creating a complex objects right structure like upon
building a structure, right?
So it helps you in creating a complex object with a small small objects.
And it helps in creating an object, not constructing.
Right.
Not constructing the structure.
Now the culprit is bizarre example.
Let's understand with the pizza example how they differ.
So now let's say we have a base pizza.
We have a base pizza, so this base pizza can be decorated with cheese.
I will take a small example.
I will don't make it too big.
Mushroom.
Only two things.
So this base pizza can be decorated with cheese.
And then this again.
This again itself is a pizza only.
And then this again can be decorated with mushroom.
And this again is pizza only.
And ultimately you get a pizza.
Okay.
Understandable.
But how we can solve it.
Builder design pattern right.
Can builder design pattern be used to create a pizza?
Let's see.
So here let's say my the where we take a student.
So now here I have a pizza.
And pizza has lot of optionals right.
So let's say it is base.
So it is base is let's say crust could be thin crust thick crust whatever.
Let's say this is mandatory.
What are its options?
Let's say cheese.
Cheese is optional.
Possible, right.
Mushroom.
Mushroom is optional.
And there could be many.
But I told I will take simple.
So let's say this is my base pizza.
Like kind of a normal pizza class.
Then what is the second layer?
Pizza builder.
Right.
So this might be an abstract or interface which will have all these things now.
Pizza builder can be many like let's say I have, uh, pizza plus cheese.
Base.
Pizza plus mushroom.
Builder.
Builder or I have base Pizza Plus or let's say for now, this two base Pizza plus cheese builder base
pizza plus mushroom builder, right.
These two builders I have, and let's say I have a director.
So director will say that.
Hey.
Okay, you need to create, uh, base pizza.
Normal pizza with cheese.
Okay.
So what it will do is it will call its steps.
Let's say add add crust.
It will have one method add crust.
Right.
This will also have method add crust.
So let's say it is adding thin crust.
Then it will have method add cheese.
So it will call.
So director will call that okay.
You want this pizza I it will take out this object and then it will call its method add crust.
Then it will add add cheese and then it will call build and return the pizza.
Now the second time you want the hey I want pizza with mushroom.
So it will take out okay.
This is the constructor.
This is the builder.
So it will call its method add crust, add mushroom and then build add crust add mushroom then build
and it will return an object.
Now where the decorator and builder got differ.
Now let's say you got another request.
Hey I want this pizza plus cheese plus mushroom.
Will you able to do it?
No.
Because builder design pattern cannot handle dynamic request.
You have to create one class based pizza with plus cheese plus mushroom.
This is all its steps built.
So it it.
Okay.
You want this builder.
Then it will call its steps and then build.
But with the decorator this can support dynamic.
Using this it can support dynamic.
So I hope you got the difference builder.
With builder design pattern you cannot support dynamic nature of an object.
But with decorator even the dynamic representation of an object.
Any use case we can support.
Okay guys, I hope you got it.
The builder design pattern or or your code already have description, so go ahead and if there is any
doubt let me know.
I can also take one live session on it to clear more doubts, but I hope this would get cleared.
Your doubts with the builder design pattern.
Okay, guys.
Bye.
Good night.

--- LLD of Cricbuzz ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today we are doing the low level design of Cricbuzz.
So I am putting this as tick mark into our low level design roadmap.
And slowly we are covering all the topics.
And I will also show you the coding of it and the implementation, how we are printing innings, why
inning all the player information and the winner and all.
And also you don't have to worry about the code.
I have pushed this code here in the GitLab link given in the description section.
So total focus on learning the concepts and you can check out the code later.
So if you already aware of how we generally follow the questions of low level design, what is the first
step?
The first step is.
Requirement.
Gathering.
Right.
So as part of Cricbuzz.
So Cricbuzz is an app which is specifically for cricket match, right?
So here you can see multiple matches which are going on match one, match two, match.
And and if you click on a particular match you can see its scorecard.
And this scorecard will get update ball by ball right by each ball.
This scorecard will get updated.
So you will always get the latest information.
So we have to build this right.
And how the.
Let me show you how the scorecard looks like of a cricket match if somebody doesn't know.
So it's shows like this.
So team a innings how many runs and wickets have been gone.
How many total overs.
Right.
What is the batting player's detail.
So let's say team A player one bowled by team B, let's say player number seven.
And we also stored the detail of each player.
Let's say it has run 11 runs in, let's say seven balls, 1406.
Strike rate is, let's say 110.
Just an example.
Right.
So similarly we also record all these details against a batsman.
Similarly against a bowler we stores like okay how many overs let's say five overs.
How many maidens, how many runs they have given 25 runs.
How many wickets.
This this bowler has taken two wickets.
Zero no ball, one white ball.
What is the economy rate going on and what is the similarly.
So this is team innings because as you know in a cricket match two teams participate team A and team
B right.
So in the innings one one of the team is batting and another team is bowling.
And when the innings got changed the batting and bowling team also gets switched, right?
So in the innings one the batting team is team A.
Now, in the innings B or second inning, the batting team would be team B right.
So I think we have all of this cricket match fundamentals right.
So it's we all love cricket.
So we all know this.
Like how this, uh, batting bowling switch happen runs for six.
So I'm not going much detail into this of this how this scorecard goes into I think it's self descriptive.
Right.
Because we already know this game.
Very much.
So now let's jump into like what all the flow we see okay.
So let's construct a flow okay.
So now in the case when we do a requirement gathering and flow rough flow right.
So we know that okay two teams comes two teams comes right.
And then will what will happen is match starts right.
So in the match start we can see that okay.
Inning one started right.
Then after that inning two started right inside an inning.
Let's say if it is a game of 50 overs.
So it would be for 50 overs.
Uh, let's say team A will do bat.
Team B will do ball right.
And after in the inning two again 50 overs.
But now here team A will do the bowling and team B team B will do bat right.
So for each player.
So here for each team we have a player information right.
So for each player we have to maintain the score details.
So this is the normal flow which we can think of as a cricket match.
Now as a second step we have to come.
What are the objects we can list from here?
Okay, so what are the objects?
First is match, right?
Then we have team.
Okay, then inside team, there would be players.
Right.
So once we have a player, then match will have innings.
So we have innings.
What does innings has innings.
Has overs.
How many overs.
Right.
So it has overs.
What does over has over has ball right.
So we have to store each ball information right.
And what else we have.
We have to maintain the scorecard okay cool.
So now let's go.
And third step Let's try to make a relationship.
And UML class diagram.
So now let's go to the class diagram.
And I will while we were doing the class diagram I will also show you the code perspective also.
Right.
So let's say first is match.
Okay.
So what does match will have.
So match will have two teams.
Team A.
Team B what all match can have.
Match can have let's say um date when this match is happening.
Let's say some, uh venue.
Okay.
Then it will have, uh, like, uh, innings.
It have innings.
Right.
And I it will have one more thing.
Match type.
I'll tell you what is this match type.
Right.
And also the team which won the toss.
Toss winner.
Right.
So this would be the things and the method which will have is start match.
Okay.
So a match can have two teams a venue inning match type.
And who is the who.
Which team won the toss.
Right.
So okay, after that we go know that okay match has team.
Match has team.
So we are going top down.
Match has team.
So now we are making team.
Let's see what all can team have.
Okay so team had say team name.
Let's say India Pakistan Bangladesh Sri Lanka.
So we have certain team name right.
Also we have a list of players right.
So here I am taking a cue.
Because you know that we give a numbering or who will play one.
Who will play two.
Who will play 11.
Right.
So we have a proper ordering.
So that's why I'm using a cue.
Right.
So here I am taking a player.
Right.
Player details of player.
And this is my P 11 playing 11 team.
Right.
So they are there also are members.
Which are in branch.
Or you can say that extra right.
And there are two additional things which I am keeping here I'll tell you about this.
One is.
Player.
Batting controller.
Batting controller and player.
Bowling controller.
Okay, so I'll tell you about this one.
Why we need this.
So I am putting a question mark here first so that I will.
I can explain you why we are using it.
Okay.
Now let's go more for the player.
So now let's construct player.
So team has.
Player.
Team has player.
So what does player has?
So player is a person.
Nothing but right.
So I'm taking as a person object.
Person like a player name age address some personal details.
Right.
So that's why I'm taking it as a person.
Right.
And then the player type.
Player type.
Okay.
So I'll tell you about this.
Uh, slowly we will construct all these things player type.
Right.
And I will also complete another thing.
So let's go first player person.
Let's complete all those things.
Players.
So person.
So what is person.
So person will have let's say what is name.
What is personal details.
Right.
Age Certain address.
So all its personal detail.
Right.
So this player has certain personal details which I am keeping it into the person.
Then it has an enum.
So this is I am taking as an enum.
So this is then enum.
What is that enum.
Player type.
So player can be a baller.
Player can be a batsman.
It can be wicket keeper.
All rounder.
Captain.
Right.
Depend.
So this is an email that this player is what role it is playing.
What is the player type.
Right.
And I told you here right at the above if you see the scorecard for each player.
We are maintaining the scorecard.
This player has how many runs, how many balls?
Four.
Six.
Right.
What is the strike rate going on.
Right.
So each player can have two kind of a scorecard right.
So one it can have a your.
Batting.
Scorecard.
Right.
Your bat scorecard.
And one it can have is your bowling scorecard.
Bowling scorecard.
So now let's make that right.
So now here we have batting scorecard and bowling scorecard.
Let's first make a.
Batting scorecard.
It's a bad thing.
Scorecard.
So from the scorecard of this, we can know that okay.
What all details we have to put.
So in the batting scorecard we have to put like okay total runs.
So total run this player this player has made right.
Then what we can have is.
Total balls played.
Total force.
Total six.
Right.
And also we can have certain information like strike rate.
So we can increase this batting scorecard if you require more details, but I am telling you that these
are all the details which I am keeping in the batting, and this is associated with each person.
So each player can play a role of either a batsman and bowler.
So that's why we need two scorecard, the batting scorecard when he is batting and another scorecard
is required, which we need to update when this player is doing a bowling.
So as a bowler what all things I told you that this five six things we have to store that what is the.
Total.
Overs delivered.
Right then we will have right are.
Runs given.
Wickets.
It's taken.
Okay, then we will have a.
No ball count.
White ball count and more.
Let's say we also want economy rate.
Okay.
So for each player now you can say that it has a batting scorecard.
Bowling scorecard.
Right.
So this because a player can be a batsman a player can be a bowler.
So my player is now complete I have a person I have a player type enum I have a batting scorecard.
Bowling scorecard.
Okay.
Now let's jump to the team.
So team name player is done.
Branch is done.
Right now I told you to remember this.
The player batting controller and player bowling controller.
Hey, why this is required now?
Okay, So why this is added?
Because whenever a player got out.
Whenever.
So let's say consider from a batting perspective who going to bat next or let's say from our perspective
who is going to ball next.
Which player is on striker?
Which player is on non striker.
Right.
Which one is a current bowler.
So all this information I can handle through controller I'll tell you how.
And this makes our life very very easy as.
Team has what.
Player writing controller.
And what does player batting controller has is so see now if out of this 11 players.
Now which one?
How many is already out?
How many yet to play?
Right.
Which player is on currently on strike?
Which player is currently on strike?
Because if you remember the player which is currently on strike, we we show star that we get to know
that this is on strike.
Other one is on the non strike right.
So we we need to maintain this information somewhere right.
So I am maintaining this information through batting controller.
Or you can say that I am maintaining a certain queue of a player yet to play yet to play.
So every time any batsman got out and there are requests come, hey, assign a new player so it will
goes to the batting controller and from the queue it will take the top one because we are maintaining
a sequence.
Right.
And if we remove it, the yet to play size will become less right.
So you get to play only contains that those still waiting for batting, right?
Then I have player which is currently on strike.
Striker and player.
Non striker.
Right.
So this class manage controls all this information.
Which player is on striker.
Which player is on non striker and which players are yet to play.
Right.
So it has all this information out of this 11 players.
What is the how many players are yet to play.
How many are currently who is on striker and which player is on non striker.
Similarly I am maintaining a bowling information.
So player.
Bowling controller right.
So see based upon the match format.
Based upon the match type T20 or one day, a bowler has certain restriction that you can bowl only five
five overs or ten overs, right?
So and it's always between like, okay, once the bowler one has done, then next would be some other.
It cannot be repetitive, right.
So that's why I am using here two data structure.
Where is one is I am using here DQ.
DQ of player which is has all the bowlers list.
Right.
So let's say why DQ because let's say the Q has three bowlers p1, p2, p3.
Now P1 is on the top.
So now let's say P1 is doing.
So.
Now let's say P1 is chosen as the next bowler.
So I will take it out from the front.
And if he has again more ball overs left I will put it at the back.
Right.
So DQ will help me.
And another thing is I'm also keeping a map of player comma count.
Uh, so it's a bowler versus over count.
So which player has thrown how much overs?
Because as soon as I need to also make sure that the overs which that bowler has thrown it should not
reach out a particular limit.
Right.
Because this is depend upon the match type how much over a player can deliver, right?
So I'll tell you how I'm doing that.
So that.
But currently the bowling controller I am using two data structures.
And who is the current bowler?
My current bowler.
So player bowling controller taking care of all these things whenever a new, uh, assign new bowler
request comes in.
So it will take care that which one to assign based upon certain logic that, okay, who's bowler is
left and all these things.
So till now all looks good.
So if you see our team is also looks good.
Now our team name player we have built out a player batting controller player bowling controller also
built out.
Now let's go to match team.
Okay.
Done.
Date.
String.
Venue.
Innings right before innings.
Let's come to match type.
Let me tell you about a match type.
So here match has.
So now this is an interface.
This is an interface.
Match type right.
So what this will have.
So match type will have two information like number of overs.
Give me the number of overs and maximum over.
Bowler allowed.
Right.
And I have taken so we can have a different child.
Classes of.
One day match type.
T20 match type.
And we can even increase more.
Right.
So match type could be one day T20 test match and all.
So here one day will return number of overs let's say 50 overs.
Bowlers allowed ten T20 will return number of overs 20 maximum overs bowlers allowed let's say five.
Right.
So I am controlling this using a match type okay.
So match type is also clear.
Now let's go to innings.
So now let's go to innings.
Innings.
Okay, so now what is there in the inning?
So inning has team batting team.
Which one is the batting team?
It also has information about the bowling team.
Which one is the bowling team?
I told you right.
In each inning, either one team could be batting, another could be a bowling.
Right.
So we have to store that information.
Right.
And also what it will have is list of over list of overs.
So the how many overs we have to throw will come from the match type one day T20.
So match will send to the inning that okay you have to run for 50 overs or 20 overs right.
So that information will come from the match type here.
This will pass to the inning.
So inning has list of overs right.
So now and it will have certain method like start inning.
Start inning.
So whatever the over size would be the match will start.
So now let's complete the inning.
So team is we have already built out the team right.
So here what is left is over.
So now let's make over.
So innings has over details.
Over.
So what will have over is what is the over number.
Right.
And it will also have list of balls.
So each over has six balls but there can be no ball white balls.
So there could be more balls right.
So we have a list of balls right.
So it has certain information.
And we can say that method would be let's say Start over.
Now let's complete over.
So over has balls.
List of balls.
So now let's create.
Over has.
Balls.
So now let's put balls.
Details.
So what ball detail we have is ball number right 123.
Like what would be the ball number.
It ball type.
So we have a ball type.
So here this is an enum.
Ball type.
So ball can be either say normal.
No ball.
White ball.
Or it can be anything.
So ball type could be anything right out of this.
Then we have run type.
So in a cricket match again this is an enum.
Enum run type.
So there are different type of run.
Here we can have one two.
We can have four.
We can have six.
Or we can also have let's say white run right.
So different type of runs which are all possible.
So I am adding certain few like what are the different runtimes.
It is possible in a game.
Right then also uh we also need a information about the player is played by.
Which player played by.
Then also I am storing an information.
Which player bowled by which player is doing the balling and which player is playing this are balling.
Right.
So I have certain this information and the method would be, uh, start ball delivery something.
Now understand one thing.
So now everything looks good.
Till now I think our cricket match is done.
But there is one important thing is missing in this.
One important thing is I told you in the start that Cricbuzz is a ball by ball information updater.
So how it is updating the information.
You know that, right?
We have a scorecard.
Batting a scorecard.
Bowling scorecard.
So now this scorecard should be updated after every each and every ball.
Right.
So if you remember the observer design pattern.
So that very much fit into here right.
So I have written one updater.
I have written one updater.
Score.
Updater.
Observer.
So this is my another class.
Or you can say that this is an interface.
This is an interface.
Right.
So there are two observers is a so there are two observers.
One is batting scorecard updater.
Another is.
Bowling scorecard updater.
So we have a update method here right.
We have update method here.
And we pass the ball information here.
Ball information here.
Right.
So both will get a ball information.
And after every ball we will have one more method called notify.
So what this will do is after every method notify will call.
This observer.
Right.
So means ball will also have list of.
Score.
Updater.
Observer list.
So I will put into this list.
This two batting and bowling score updater.
And after every ball that will call the notify method, and it will call both the batting and bowling,
and it will call the update method and pass the ball information.
Now with the ball information.
Now, if you know that ball information has what who played by.
So I have a player information who played.
So I can take out the player who has played.
And I can take its batting scoreboard and update total run total ball plates plus one.
Right.
If it's a ball type is a run.
Type is four.
I will increase it.
Similarly, the ball also has information about bowled by who delivered that over who delivered that
ball.
So I will take that player and update its bowling scorecard.
You got it.
So this is what where I am using observer design pattern.
Observer design pattern.
And with this our cricket boss is totally done.
Now I'll show you the code part.
But this is understood.
So now, with this part, let me show you the code.
Let's first go to the match.
Let me first complete this match.
Show you the match.
This is the match.
So match has team A, team B, venue, innings, match type and toss winner.
So here I have team A, team B venue.
Which team is the winner?
Innings and match type.
Right.
So this information will come from the main method like whenever the game has started.
Right.
So in the main method I have initiated the players and all these things.
And I have then passed that okay I want a match type is T20 match.
So whenever a match will start it will get all this information team A information, team B information
when you.
What is the mesh type T20 or one day and we have to create two innings.
Now I just call start match information.
Okay.
In start match, what is the first thing?
Do the toss.
So I just written a very basic toss functionality.
And guys this is just for understanding purpose.
There might be bugs in the code as a implementation.
So kindly ignore those.
But understand the logic right.
Low level design.
So the toss has been done.
We got a winner right?
So now the two innings will be started.
So that's why I'm iterating two times right.
So when the first innings is there, I assume that whoever is the toss winner will bat first.
So this is one assumption I did.
So first I make a batting team.
Which one is the toss winner and the bowling team is the another team.
So I have started the inning.
So my inning has been started.
So mining has been started now.
But before this one.
Yeah.
Let's see now when the inning is started, what I am doing is I am setting a batsman because when the
because I need to start the overs.
Right.
So first I need to set who is the striker.
Non striker.
So that's why I told you which one will help me here in this.
In the teams there would be batting controller.
So batting controller will help me to set this detail.
So here now if see whichever the batting team is I will call it choose next batsman.
Right.
And it will goes to the batting controller and it will pick the next batsman from yet to play.
From yet to play, it will take out and put the striker and it will take out and fill up the non striker.
Right.
So that's how I am filling up the details in the batsman and from the match type, I will take out the
over whether it's a 20 or 50.
So it's a dynamic, right?
So now my overs are running.
So from an innings now my overs started.
So now I am here right.
I am now I am here at this part.
My overs are started now when the over started first I have to choose the bowler.
So again when choosing a bowler which one will help me?
So I have a team which is doing a bowling and this player bowling controller will help me to choose
a bowler.
So choose next bowler.
So let's see how we are choosing it.
So I am taking from the DK.
I am taking the bowler which is from the head if bowler maximum count which is allowed by a game right.
Maximum allowed if we are get equals.
I am not putting it back into the cube because it is already done.
After that it cannot bowl.
Otherwise I will again put it back into the list at but in the last and also increase the count that
this many overs he has bowled.
Okay, so I'll get the next bowler.
And I started the over.
I started the over.
So now my over is started and now when over is started, till when it has to run till six normal deliveries.
So whenever the ball type is normal then only I am increasing the ball count.
Till then it over has to be continue till it is not normal.
Right?
And whenever the ball little is happening, I am starting the ball delivery.
So for each ball it is going to ball.
Now here if you see that what I am doing is I have made certain assumptions that okay are take out what
is the ball?
I have always assumption that okay, it is a normal ball, but it would be come from input or let's
say some random method.
But for now I have taken an assumption that this ball type is a normal type only.
Right.
And I have written one random method that wicket or not wicket.
Right?
So some random method you know, right?
It will return from 0 to 1 if it is between less than zero to.
I say that yes, you got out right.
So just to build the functionality.
So if wicket is taken then I have added okay runtime is zero.
I added the wicket detail.
If wicket is not there means get the runtime.
So I again I use the random function that okay, whether it's a one run, two run, 4 or 6.
So just for the functionality, what is the runtime?
So here I have certain functionality that whenever the runtime is one or runtime is three, I have to
swap the striker and Non-striker.
Right.
So these are certain business logic which doesn't comes with to the low level design.
But just to show you the demo, right.
So I have shown that okay, Striker and Non-striker has to be done.
But once all this logic is done after that, what I told you that the ball also have list of score updater.
So here if you see that whenever during the ball constructor I have currently two Updaters.
These are my observers.
Batting score.
Updater.
Bowling score.
Updater.
Observer.
So after every ball I am updating Notify Updater and notify updater.
Iterate over the score.
Like all this batting bowling.
And it's called their update method.
So let's say first it's called batting.
So it will update from the ball.
It will take out who played this ball and let's update it.
Bowling scorecard so it will increase if it is a four.
If it is a six, how much total?
Run it updated.
Similarly for the bowling based upon the ball detail who bowled it so ball detail dot bowled by who
bowled it?
Take out his bowling scorecard and update it.
So now they are taking a responsibility to updating my score cards every ball by ball.
So this is we have cricket balls information.
I hope this would be informational guys.
Any doubt anything.
Please reach out to me on LinkedIn or anywhere in the comment section also.
And this code is already here.
So just check out and practice it.
It is a very very important question.
Okay guys thank you and see you soon.
Bye.

--- Facade Design Pattern (Structural Design Pattern) ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today I am going to tell you the very, very important design pattern and also one of my favorite
design pattern.
So why it is favorite because it is very very simple.
Second, it is widely used and I am pretty much sure even though you haven't studied this design pattern,
you might have used this design pattern while coding for sure, right?
So before going this, I will tell you what we will cover today.
So I'll cover facade design pattern.
I will tell you different real world use cases.
Plus at the later part of the video I'll tell you about facade versus proxy pattern.
Also facade versus adapter Pattern because they are little bit similar and many candidates got confused
between this.
Right.
So with I will show you different scenarios where can we can use facade with different different examples,
and I hope it will help you to differentiate.
Okay, where to use facade.
When to use facade okay.
So let's start okay.
Let's start with facade.
So what is when to use it.
When to use and why.
So facade is used when we have to.
Hide the system complexity.
From the client that's all.
So when to use facade.
Just always remember this.
Whenever we have to hide the system complexity from the client, then we have to go for facade.
For example car.
Okay, so we all know that whenever.
So let's say you are a client.
So as a user user we who are driving the car, we are a client.
So user know that when you press or when you press accelerate method, accelerate function, what will
happen?
A speed goes up and when the user press brake what will happen?
Speed goes down right.
So that's how as a client we know the functionality.
If I click if I press accelerate, pedal speed will go up.
If I push, the brake pedal, speed will go down.
But the real complexity, the system complexity behind the accelerate does.
Clients knows it?
No.
So when actual this method got called right.
Maybe internally a system has so many classes which are interacting with each other to actually make
the speed up, right?
So as a client, I do not bother like how actually the speed is getting increased.
Okay.
This engine is interacting with gear.
Gear is interacting with this.
We don't know right?
We we are less bothered about how the different components of a card car interact together.
So that speed goes up.
We don't care.
All we know, all we care about, is if we press the accelerator, pedal speed should go up similarly.
Client doesn't bother about what all components interact with each other so that speed goes down right?
We all care about if we call break, speed should go down.
So if we go with this definition.
So now what we have done is we have to hide the system complexity.
So this is our system right.
And it is very complicated system.
Let's say there are thousands of components in a car which are interacting with each other right.
So we have to hide this complexity from the client.
And we have to hide this from the client.
Client should not know about this thousand components how they are interacting.
Right.
So he's all interested in acceleration brake and other functionality right.
So this is nothing but a facade layer.
If it is not much clear as of now, don't worry, I'll tell you many more examples.
It will get very, very much clear.
But currently only remember that when to use facade.
Whenever we want to hide the system complexity from the client, right?
So with this example, at least you know that there is a system.
Which has many components or many classes.
You can say that many classes.
Class one, class two, class three, class four.
Or let's say class 100 something.
And they are interacting with each other.
So it's a very complex system right.
So facade is just a this layer.
And this is actually the client.
So client interact with facade and facade internally interact with the system.
Right.
So this is what known as facade.
But always remember that we are not forcing client to always talk with facade, right?
Client if wanted.
If client wanted.
Client can also talk directly with system.
Right.
So facade is not a mandatory.
First of all we have to always remember that we should not enforce client to use facade if we if client
wanted to use any of the class.
So let's say client say that okay.
No I want to use class one.
Class two, class three.
So we should not force client to use facade to do that.
So it's client is independent.
Like if I want to use client should be able to use the components independently.
And whatever the facade logic client say that okay I can build that logic into mine.
It should be open.
So but it's client choice that whether they want to build a complex by themself or better way, is that
we can create a facade layer and client can interact with that.
Right?
So all the complexity and logic goes here.
So all client has to do is just call the facade.
So till now it is clear simple.
Now let me tell you the different scenarios where we can use it.
Scenario one right.
The example the car example which I gave you.
Right.
It's very much similar to it.
So here I have created an employee Dao.
Employee Dao.
And those who don't know what is Dao.
Dao is data access object.
So a class which interact with DB, insert update, select all method goes here and actually interact
with db and insert the row.
Get the row.
Update the row.
So that's why we call as Dao.
DOH!
Okay, so now I have created one employee Dao.
And this employee Dao can have many methods.
Let's say insert, update or update employee name update employee address.
Right.
Then it has get employee detail by employee ID.
Get employee detail by email ID email ID.
Similarly, let's say there could be 50 or 100 methods, right?
There could be so many methods, right?
So I have created one employee, Dao.
And I have put method like insert update employee name, get employee detail by email ID, get employee
detail by employee ID and there could be many more methods, but let's say our client is only interested
in insert and get employee detail.
It doesn't bother about all the 50 or 100 methods.
So what we can do is one way is we can bring a facade here.
Employee facade.
Right?
And in the employee facade what methods I have exposed insert and get employee detail via employee ID.
So client is only bothered about this two and doesn't bother about what all other 50 or 100 methods
involve, right?
So here if you see in the employee facade it has employed Dow object.
So employee facade has.
Employee Dow right.
So it creates.
So now you know one more thing that the facade takes the responsibility of creation of an object of
all the components that interact with.
So currently it is interacting with Dow.
So it takes the responsibility of initializing its object also and it and it expose only those methods
which client required it.
So this is my client.
Client only wanted insert and get employee details.
So here in this client method I am just getting the employee detail.
So client has employee facade.
So this has.
So right.
So you got the scenario one.
What is the scenario one.
Scenario one is we can use facade when we have to just expose certain methods to the client.
And even if there are hundred of method and if client is not bothered in the facade, we can ignore
it.
Okay.
So this is one scenario where we can use facade.
Let's go to the second scenario.
So in the second scenario let's say this is our system.
Let's say this is our system.
And it's a it's a complex system.
This is my system.
So in system I have product now.
So product now means it will interact with product table internally db and get the product insert product
or something.
So I have one method get product okay.
Similarly I have payment class where I have a method make payment.
Similarly I have invoice where it is have a method generate invoice.
Similarly I have send notification send.
So just see that we have multiple classes right?
I haven't made any interaction to make it simple.
I haven't picked much okay.
This component has his right.
So there could be a complex subsystem also.
Right.
But here I just say that okay there are different classes present Okay, now understand this.
Let's take before even telling you the example which I have taken.
Let's say I want all classes I have taken.
So this is my subsystem.
This is my subsystem.
In subsystem I have payment product.
Invoice notification classes.
Right now let's say if I want to make a client right and client want to make an order.
So.
So the purpose is to create an order.
Create an order right.
So what client will do.
So let's say the process of creating an order is first get product get product.
Second is make payment.
Make payment.
Third is generate invoice generate invoice.
And fourth is send notification.
Send notification.
So when all the four step is done order is completed.
So one way is that client should have the knowledge of all this that okay.
To create an order I need all this functionality right.
So here what is the disadvantage.
So disadvantage is first if we have this if client directly knows about okay.
So let's say in future order creation logic change.
Let's say I have one more thing.
Uh make payment and I have one more step created uh, let's say a new step, uh, for order creation.
Let's say one more new step added.
Right.
So client has to update because client will break.
Client has to update its order creation capability.
Okay.
New step has been added to create an order.
So client has to change.
Second what is the problem.
Let's say currently payment is returning integer or let's say invoice is returning currently Boolean.
Yes.
Invoice generated true.
False.
Right.
But now let's say if any changes has been made and it's made to void, it is not returning anything
now.
Right.
So any change.
In logic of this classes.
that will also impact client, that also impact client.
So you got the disadvantage of why client should not have this.
Because if in a process any new step added client has to change if in the existing steps only if certain
logic got changed, let's say return type change then also client will get impacted.
So what is the better way?
So better way is bringing a facade layer order facade layer.
So all this logic steps logic which client is keeping.
We will keep at order facade layer right.
So order I have put one create order.
And there I am saying that hey create an order method I exposed.
And inside that I am first fetching the product.
First step, second making a payment third invoice generated and then send notification.
Right order created successfully.
So order facade has all this classes information.
So it takes the responsibility of creating a object for that.
So order facade has.
Right.
And now client is free.
Client only will call the create order of the facade.
It has this one.
So any change in the product in the system right.
It only impact facade right.
It will not impact the client.
So clients should not even bother about all this logic.
And all right so client should be like okay if I call this it should happen like car.
If I press this speed should increase.
If anything internally change.
I do not care.
Right.
So that's why this is very important.
You got this.
Okay, so now one more thing I want to tell you.
Another is facade using another facade.
This is also very simple, right.
So till now what we have studied is client.
Is calling facade.
And out of hour.
So this is our system.
This is our system which has many classes.
They might be interacting with each other we don't know.
Or many classes which might not even be interacting.
So currently facade can interact with them.
Right.
As we saw.
But we can also have other facade.
So this is facade one.
There can be a facade two.
There can be a facade three.
So let's say facade one is using facade two.
Right.
And facade one can also be using facade three also.
Right.
It is possible.
So it can take or leverage the different facades available.
Right.
So that is also a capability which makes it facade design pattern much more powerful and easy to use.
So now here if you see that for example here I already have ordered facade.
Right.
And let's say I have here payment facade for example, because let's say if uh, to make a payment,
there would be I think 10 or 15 step.
So we don't care.
We just have created a facade.
Make payment.
Payment should be happen, right?
And now let's say here is what should be that order.
We have order.
We have payment.
And let's say here we have is checkout facade.
Let's say I'm just taking an example right.
Just to explain checkout facade.
So in the checkout facade we can have is first it will create an order and then make a payment.
Then checkout will get completed.
And also if it checkout facade need any other methods or any other classes.
It can also call that and use it so it can create its own sequence.
Right.
So you got it.
So facade can also use another facade also.
Facade versus proxy.
Now you can ask me here how the facade and proxy are different.
So if you remember in proxy what we have done Let's say we have employee Dao.
So here this is let's say in proxy we have created an interface.
This is an interface.
And this is the real object employee impl implementation.
So in proxy we create one proxy here.
Employee DTO proxy and proxy internally calls this impl.
So client calls proxy.
So client call proxy and proxy actually calls the actual object right.
So client calling employee DTO proxy and employee DTO proxy is calling the this one.
So now you can say that hey it is very much similar to facade here now in facade.
Client is calling facade and facade is calling the actual objects.
Right.
So you can see how they are different.
First difference is if you see the proxy proxy is for a particular object.
So let's say this object.
So whatever the interface of this class proxy is also of the same interface.
Right.
So this is of the same interface.
And proxy takes care of a particular object.
So now here inside it's a employee DTO right.
So proxy will take care of this only proxy.
Let's say if there are another DTO let's say order DTO proxy.
This proxy will not take care of this one.
Right.
So a proxy can take care of only.
So this is wrong.
A proxy can take care of only one object, and the type of this proxy is also same as that object which
it is taking care of.
Now C facade versus adapter.
So in adapter you know right we have an actual interface.
Or you can say that original.
Interface right.
So let's say I take an an example of let's say this socket.
So this is an original interface.
And then you have a client.
So let's say your client is this.
Right.
So they are currently incompatible.
So client and your original interface are incompatible.
Table.
So we create an adapter in mid.
So that client can talk with adapter.
Adapter can talk with original.
And it can do kind of a mediator right.
So you got right adapter is used to bring the compatibility between the client and original interface.
Right.
And the use of facade is to hide the complexity right from the client.
I hope this clarify you the facade design pattern, and you will not get confused with proxy and adapter.
And any time you will get a use case, you should be able to know when to use facade.
Okay guys.
So that's, uh, that's all from my side today and I'll see you soon.
Bye, guys.
Good night.

--- Bridge Design Pattern (Structural Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
Today I am going to cover the bridge design pattern in the LD.
So now in the LD roadmap I am making this as also right bridge design pattern.
Bridge pattern okay.
So we have covered all this and still so many things pending.
We will cover all these things.
So now mostly patterns are almost done.
We will do.
Now let's see questions.
Lot more questions okay.
Now let's switch to the bridge design pattern.
So let's see its definition first.
Then I will tell you that how it is very very similar to strategy.
So let's see its definition.
First bridge pattern decouples an abstraction from its implementation so that two can vary independently.
Right.
Just read one more time and then I will tell you with an example.
Right.
Uh, with this example itself, you will uh, get clarified with this definition very easily.
So read one more time.
Bridge pattern decouples.
What abstraction from its implementation.
So this is its UML.
So this is abstraction.
This is implementer.
Right.
So it decouples an abstraction from its implementation so that two can vary independently.
So let's say if you want to increase more concrete implementer you can add it here.
If you want to add more child classes for this abstraction you can add here.
So that's why I say that it decouples an abstraction and implementation so that they both can vary independently.
Right.
We will come to this UML again.
But let's see first an example and understand this definition properly.
So I come up with an example is this let's say living thing right.
What living thing.
So this is an abstract class.
This one.
This is an abstract class, right?
So here I have created one abstract method.
Breathe process.
Breathe.
Process.
So now I created a three child classes dog fish and tree.
Right.
And I have a breathe process method.
So it's a abstract method right.
So they have to implement it.
So if you see that dog has its own breathe process it breathe so it breathe through nose.
Inhale oxygen from air and exhale carbon dioxide.
Similarly fish has its own breathing process.
Breathe through grills.
Absorb oxygen from water.
Release carbon dioxide.
Tree has its own breathing process.
Breathe through leaves.
Inhale carbon dioxide.
Exhale oxygen.
Okay, so now if you see that this is nothing but a simple inheritance, you will ask, hey, this is
nothing but a simple inheritance, right?
Uh, so parent class has this method and all the child class just implemented those methods.
But what is the problem here?
What is the problem here?
Right.
Which bridge pattern is trying to solve?
Now we will see the problem.
Which bridge pattern try to solve in this thing.
Okay.
So here the problem is now let's say I want to introduce new breathing process.
New breathing process.
So this is a process right.
Let's say I want to uh like breathing process.
Let's say for bird let's say bird breathing process.
Is it inhale through.
Pass like they have a beak.
And on the beak they have small holes.
So that's called nuts right.
So let's say they now it's a different breathing process.
Inhale oxygen exhale carbon dioxide.
So it's a different breathing process.
Now the problem here is you cannot add this new breathing process because currently it is very tightly
coupled with the abstraction.
So until and unless this will not add.
Third.
Right.
So another class.
But then only you can add this breathing process.
Inhale through nose and exhale through mouth.
Let's say breathing process something.
So what I'm trying to say is that here, even if you wanted to add a new breathing process, you cannot
add it because it's very tightly coupled here.
Tightly coupled with what with abstract class, until, until and unless abstract class is, there is
no child class present which use that breathing process.
You cannot add it, right?
So they cannot Not very independently.
They are very tightly coupled.
You understand the problem, right?
You got it.
So the problem here with this example is very clear, right?
If you want to add a new breathing process let's say anything right.
Somebody inhales uh let's say something carbon dioxide and and uh exhale also carbon dioxide both inhale
carbon dioxide.
Exhale carbon dioxide.
So it's a totally different process right.
But you cannot add it unless and until and unless there is one child class added into this abstract
which uses that which uses that breathing process.
So why.
Because it's a tightly coupled this implementation and abstraction.
So how to resolve this.
So I have divided into this part.
So what I have done is so living thing I have maintained the same thing Abstract class, living thing.
Right?
But what I have done is I have taken out the breath thing.
This is right.
This process, this implementation breathing process I have taken out in a different interface.
So I have created one breath implementer.
So I have created one implementer which is known as breathe.
I given a name breathe implementer.
Right.
So it says it has one method breathe.
It's an interface.
Now I've created a child classes.
And with the different processes.
Land.
Breathe.
So I give it a name.
Land.
Breathe.
So it's has its own implementation.
Okay.
Breathe through nose.
Inhale oxygen.
Exhale carbon dioxide.
Similarly, I have created one child class water.
Breathe.
Implementation.
Breathe through gills, absorb oxygen and release carbon dioxide.
Similarly, I have given one child class or tree.
breathe through leaves.
Inhale carbon dioxide and exhale oxygen.
Right now here, what I have done is in the previous abstract class living thing, what I have done
is I have a reference of this implementer.
I have a reference of this implementer.
Right now again I have the same method breathe process right here I have a breathe process.
Breathe process.
Now it's child class dog same dog fish tree.
So I have also have a child class dog fish tree.
But here now see the difference.
Now in the dog constructor it is passing the breathe implementer.
It wanted fish.
It is passing to its parent.
What is the breathe implementer?
It wanted similarly tree it passes to its parent.
What is the breathe implementer it wanted?
And in the breathe process earlier we were having all this logic here, but now we have separated this
logic into the separate classes here in the process.
Now we are just doing breadth implementor, whatever the implementor would be call its breadth method,
whether if it's using land breadth implementor, it will call this method.
If it is using water breadth Implementor it will call this method right.
So here, if you see that if how the client will invoke this.
So it will create an object of this living thing.
So living thing let's say I'm creating a fish object.
New fish I'm creating a this object new fish and putting it into its parent class living thing.
And what is the breadth implementor I am passing, I'm passing a water breadth implementor to it water
breathe implementer.
So this method will call water breathe.
Implementer will be set here.
Right.
And when I call breathe.
Process fish dot breathe process.
Is it will not be implemented.
Now what is the breadth?
Implementor.
This one.
Water it.
Breathe.
So it will call water.
Breathe.
Implemented.
Dot.
Breathe.
This one.
So now what is the advantage of this?
Right.
Now the same part we have divided into like this.
Now what is the advantage?
So advantage is what is.
It decouples an abstraction from its implementation so that two can vary independently.
Now here let's say in future I need to add one more breathing process.
I can add it simply, I can add it simply.
Let's say breathing process of uh, something let's say public, uh, another x, y, z, uh, breathe
implementation.
I can add its new breathing process like inhale carbon dioxide.
Right.
And exhale carbon dioxide.
Right?
So it's a total different breathing process.
So I, I it can vary independently of abstraction, even though abstraction is abstraction.
If you see that this one is nothing changed.
Even there is no child class which is using this, but still it can grow.
It can vary from its abstract, this thing.
Right.
So that's why this is UML.
So you have an implementer.
It's concrete.
You have an abstraction.
It's concrete.
And here it has a reference of implementer.
And here in the function which it has it ultimately invokes its this methods.
Right.
So you understood this bridge.
So this is nothing but a you can say that it is considered as a bridge.
Right.
Similarly let's say for tree what will happen.
So let's say living thing, let's say I'm creating a tree object equals to new.
tree.
And let's say I want to give it a capability of land water tree or this.
So let's say I want to give it a tree right.
Sometime let's say uh, yeah.
Tree bridge implementer give let's say new I'm giving a this one new tree breathe implementation.
New tree breathe implementation.
I am giving it.
So now here if you see that the tree object what I am passing tree breathe implementation I'm passing
this one.
Right.
And when I am calling this object tree object dot tree object dot.
Breathe.
Process.
Breathe.
Process what it will call breathe.
Implementer.
This is the breathe implementer.
Right?
Tree.
Breathe.
Dot.
Breathe.
So this will get invoked right?
So now just see this even for tree if I want this.
The new one xyz, which is added inhale CO2 and exhale CO2.
Inhale carbon dioxide.
Exhale carbon dioxide I can change it on the runtime.
Let's say I can give x y z.
Uh what is that breathe implementer.
So it will call this now.
So now here this is the problem.
Breathe bridge pattern solves that.
Both implementer and abstractor can vary independently.
This can grow.
This can grow independently of the each other okay.
Got it.
So this is the one.
But now you might if you have gone through strategy pattern right you might now strike till now.
Hey isn't it very similar to strategy.
So this is the strategy pattern.
So here if you see that it has uh strategy.
Interface.
Let's say I created the same example.
Let's say I have created a breathing strategy.
Breathing strategy.
I can have a different, let's say land breathe strategy.
Similarly I can have.
Water breathe strategy.
And one more I can have is tree breathing strategy.
And similarly I can have more.
Right.
This strategy is used by one context class which has this strategy.
Object.
Strategy.
Object And clients use this, right.
So now here, if you see that it is very, very similar to what we have here, we call an implementer.
Nothing.
It's in the strategy.
It's nothing but a strategy.
We call it strategy interface.
And we have this right.
So here we have land strategy water with strategy tree based strategy.
So and here it's a concrete where it has an object of its strategy which can have either land water
or tree.
Right.
And it has one function.
That will just call that whatever the object dot let's say breathe.
And it has breathe method.
It has breathe method breathe method.
So it calls object dot breathe.
So now whatever the object you have said it will call it.
So this is exactly same as bridge pattern.
Now how is the different like.
Now the difference is only on the intent.
So see in you will learn so many design patterns and lot of design patterns are very similar but difference
in the intent.
So you have to understand the intent of what is the intent of strategy pattern.
So the intent of strategy pattern is that change the behavior of this object which it call context.
Here in the bridge it call as abstract class.
So in the intent of the strategy pattern, its intent is to change the behavior of this object on runtime.
Let's say for example, client clients create an object of let's say this context, right?
Uh, let's say I will call this context as the living thing itself.
Living thing, which you are creating.
So let's say it's creating an object of this thing, living thing.
Right.
Object equals to.
new living thing.
Now let's say it has a constructor where it.
I'll pass the strategy object.
It can pass land, new land breathe strategy.
Or it can also pass living thing.
New water.
Breathe water breathe strategy.
Right.
So this client can change anything, either land, breathe water, breathe into the same object.
So the intent of the strategy is to change the behavior of this object dynamically on runtime.
Right.
So currently if you see that for this living thing object it passed the land breathe object.
So when this method will call it change the behavior of this one object dot breathe.
So it will call this breathe.
Now it pass water breathe strategy into this one.
So when you call object dot breathe it call this.
So you are changing the behavior of this object on runtime.
Which one will you pass?
But what is the intent of bridge pattern?
The intent of the bridge pattern is that if this class grows, let's say now this is, uh, change it
to abstract, right?
Change it to abstract.
And this class grows.
Now bridge pattern.
Uh, intent is that both should grow independently, right?
So let's say if this class grows.
This class grows.
Let's say it has only living thing currently.
But now, in future, if this class grows and it has certain methods, divide it.
Like how we divided it into an implementer.
So bridge pattern is designed from that perspective.
Separate the logic whatever the logic you have into implementer so that both can vary Very independently.
Both can increase or decrease independently, but somehow the UML turned out to be the same.
Only intent is different.
You understood that only intent is different, but the UML wise and coding wise, if you see that mostly
it's almost same, right?
So don't confuse it like sometime only intents differs.
What bridge pattern try to solve?
What strategy pattern try to solve.
But the solution they might have come is very very similar.
Okay, so I think with this example it's very clear that what is the problem here.
Like you cannot grow more a process and how it resolved it by separating it out and how it's very similar
to strategy pattern but how different from the intent.
Okay guys, see you and I hope you got this bridge pattern.
Uh, like with example found very easy.
See you guys soon.
Bye.

--- LLD of Inventory Management System ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the low level design we are going to do a new question which is design order management
system.
And very much related is inventory management system like Zepto.
So in this roadmap I am making this question as now tick mark.
So here this is the one today we are going to cover this okay.
And also team ah I have also uploaded the full code in this GitLab and the description section.
You can check out this.
And whatever the UML we will come up with I will put this screenshot over here also.
Okay okay let's start with this.
And you already know what are the steps by now.
So our first step would be to understand the flow.
Okay.
So now let's understand the flow.
So if you have uh you might have used any app where you can order order any product.
Right.
E-commerce and all anything.
So user comes to the system.
Let's say this is your system.
User comes to the system or app.
What it will do is it will first view products.
It will first check view product.
What are the products available.
Or through category it can select the particular product.
Second it can add product to cart okay.
Third what it can do is it can place order.
And fourth is once the order is placed invoice will be generated.
At this much tax.
This is the final amount you have to pay and order address like destination address where it has to
be delivered everything and the final is payment or also known as checkout.
Finally.
Okay.
So this is a very high level step where we can go and order.
And you can say that very much happy flow.
This is the very much happy flow.
User comes.
View the product.
Add the product to the cart.
Place an order.
Put its address and all.
Check the amount.
What is the invoice?
And make a payment ultimately, right.
But now as an order management system, you will see that an order will be generated.
So how to manage those as an inventory management system you have a product.
So it's a kind of an inventory how you will manage those inventory.
So that's why I told this question.
Both the questions are very much interrelated to each other.
And that's where I will cover the complete flow.
And you will get the total.
What how we will handle this okay.
Now let's start with our objects finding.
So one is object is user for sure.
So we have user.
Another is view product.
So I think it will have a product right.
Then we have add product to the cart.
We will add product to the cart.
Then we will place an order.
So we have an order.
And once the order is generated, like invoice will be created, then the payment and the checkout like
so the payment would be there.
Okay.
Another thing which you have to think is so currently we have only covered one product, but there can
be many product which is nothing but an inventory.
Right.
And you might have also known one thing is each there are multiple warehouses like let's say uh, system
like Zepto where you can, uh, open an app or order a product.
So they have multiple warehouses in different, different location.
Warehouse one, location one.
Warehouse two.
Location two.
Right.
Different warehouses, different location.
When a user comes and choose a product, it will be ordered from one warehouse at a particular location.
If user has chosen three products product one, product two.
Product three, it will not be like product one will be delivered by warehouse one product two will
be delivered by warehouse two.
Product three will be by warehouse three.
It's not possible.
So all the products should be from one warehouse.
So whenever the view product has been done, it should be from one particular warehouse.
Right.
So we will have one warehouse also.
Okay.
So now with this let's start and we will add more object if we have missed anything.
Okay.
So let's start it.
So first is foremost basic is product.
So what we have is so each item we have to add in a system.
And they have an ID.
And let's say we have given it a name product name.
You can have add also other information like expiry description and all.
But one thing you have noticed that I haven't put the amount here price.
I'll tell you why.
So once the product I have created, I have created one more.
Product category.
This is very, very important.
Why?
It is very, very important for.
First let's see the it's what all information it will have.
It is.
Category ID right.
Uh, let's say certain category name.
String.
Category name.
It will have list of products.
So it has list of products.
And it will have a price double price.
So what I am saying is in this one particular category there would be a multiple items which belongs
to this category.
And all have the same price.
So whenever you go to a system right you see a particular kind of product, right?
Only one product and you will do plus Plus two.
Plus three.
How much items you wanted, right?
But you never see.
Like if you have 1000 such products, 1000 such products, you will not see thousands.
Same product listed here and you are picking the product.
I want this product, this product, this product.
No, you would only see only one product.
This is my product.
Tell me how much you want it.
Count six, count seven, count eight, count or two.
So it's just a count okay.
So that's why category is helpful in that kind of if any follow up question comes that for a particular
category based upon size, based upon brand, based upon categories, different, uh, let's say in
the drink category itself, you can a cold drink, soft drink, uh, hot drink, uh, fruity and all
kind of different categories you have.
Right.
So each category, you can have a list of products and each product will have a same price.
right?
So that is the advantage we will get based upon category.
Okay.
So now we have a category.
And the each category has one price.
Because as when you shop you know that if you just select count for this product I select three counts.
You know that the price would be same for all the thing.
Now one more thing is over.
Comes is inventory.
Inventory has so many list of this product categories.
They can have so many categories right.
They can have grocery category like say uh healthcare categories in that so many products and all.
So they can have a multiple category.
And inventory has a list of categories.
There would be so many categories out of there.
Right.
So we can have method here like all Crud operation like uh you can say that add category.
Add product category.
Remove product category like this kind of method we can have here.
Similarly, in product category we can have method like add product to a particular category, remove
product to a particular category.
And similarly we have get also.
Okay.
So we have one product.
But there can be more than one product and which we have categorized it in the product category.
Inventory has list of such product category.
And who manages this inventory.
Warehouse.
Warehouse manages inventory.
Each warehouse has one inventory.
So they have.
They warehouse has inventory.
Right.
And also this warehouse also has certain address like this address where it is.
So it can have method like.
Add item to inventory.
Remove item from inventory.
Kind of this method we have.
And similarly for address we can maintain one class.
Which we will have information like uh pin code city state.
Pin code.
City.
State okay.
So warehouse has address details.
So now till now, what we have is we have a warehouse.
Warehouse has an inventory each.
And so in the inventory there could be a different different categories of products.
And each category of products has a list of products.
And uh we can the count either you can create one variable uh int count or I am taking care it by the
size list size type.
If the size is zero means there is no item into this category.
If there is a size, uh, based upon the list size, you can also maintain that.
So that's why I'm not maintaining any another count variable for it.
Now, in a system, there can be multiple warehouses, right?
One with one warehouse, you cannot support everything.
So you can have a multiple warehouses.
So that's why we are I created a one warehouse.
Controller.
So warehouse controller has.
A list of.
Warehouse.
Warehouse list.
Right.
So what?
All method it can have.
Add warehouse.
Remove warehouse.
One more important thing.
Warehouse.
Controller.
I have kept it.
I have told you when a user comes.
All the user product requirements would be satisfied by one of the warehouse.
It cannot be satisfied by multiple warehouses.
Right.
So which out of.
Let's say I have.
This system has 100 warehouses in different cities.
Location.
Which warehouse need to be used for this particular user?
So that's why I created one kind of you can say a strategy.
Which I give it a name.
Warehouse.
Selection strategy.
It has a method called select warehouse.
Select warehouse.
And it will return the warehouse which has to be select out of multiple warehouses.
There can be different.
Uh, so it is so there could be a different ways algorithm like nearest nearest warehouse selection
strategy.
Another could be like, I'm just thinking out loud.
It could be, let's say, cheapest.
Warehouse selection strategy depending upon different strategies based upon a user preference.
Uh, one of the warehouse can be selected and assigned to this user.
Right.
So that's why I have created warehouse selection strategy.
So this has.
Right.
And I have can have one more method like select.
Warehouse okay.
So which warehouse to use.
That would be depending upon different algorithms.
So which algorithm we can have it over here.
Right.
And uh which nearest or cheapest which one to use.
Maybe user preference will might define us.
Right.
It can be dynamically.
right.
So now you see that we have created our product kind of like an inventory.
We have like product product category inventory has product category warehouse manage inventory.
We have many are warehouses.
So warehouse controller manage those warehouses.
Right.
And which warehouse to select.
We have particular algorithms for it.
Now let's move into more uh deep.
Like what.
Also till now what we have constructed, we have constructed uh product inventory warehouse.
Now let's create a user.
So let's say in mid I am creating my system or let's say my app.
Okay.
So now I am creating a user here.
So when a user is first onboarded what it will have is user ID uh string name, user name Okay, so
there are two things I have added into user mode.
One is cart.
Why I have added cart into the user.
So see I.
In my opinion the cart is very much related to one user.
One user can have only one cart.
If you go to any online purchasing app, you can have only one card.
You can add it.
You can remove the item from the cart, but you cannot have two cards for one user, right?
So each user has one card.
So cart is very much associated with a user.
Whenever user enter we assign one card to it.
Right.
So that's why I have put a card to this user.
An order will come to that later.
So okay so we will define a cart here.
Okay.
So what does cart has.
So now I can add item to a cart.
So I have put.
Integer.
Comma.
Integer.
I am creating a map and this map is category id.
Versus count.
Category id versus count.
So what happened is when a user comes to an app, you saw one product.
You saw one product, let's say a particular brand coding particular brand XYZ cold ring.
Right.
You just said like I want three, right?
So now here what I have done is so this is one category.
This is one category.
For this category you need three items.
You haven't selected products because we haven't showed you like I in my inventory I have 1000 such
product.
I haven't chose 1000.
And which product.
Now you want it.
I have shown you a category out of this category you just selected.
I want three items of this category.
So that's why in a cart I have this category versus how much you want it.
So this category ID, this is what it is.
So for this category how much product he wanted user wanted okay.
So this is there in the cart.
And what else you can do.
Add item to the cart.
Remove item from the cart.
What else you can do.
You can view the cart and you can empty it.
You can empty the cart.
Once the order is placed properly, the cart will become empty.
So user has cart.
And in a system there can be many users.
So that's why I have created one user.
Controller which has list of user users.
So it has.
It will add.
It will take care of add user.
Remove user.
Kind of this thing.
Okay so from the app till now what we have is app has.
App will have a user controller.
It will have user.
Controller you see.
It will also have warehouse controller.
Warehouse controller WC.
So it app has warehouse controller.
It has okay.
So from the app from the.
With the help of warehouse controller, I can control all the inventory.
Because warehouse controller I can select a particular warehouse.
From warehouse I can add inventories from inventories.
I can take care of product.
So I got a full control with this warehouse controller.
From the user controller, I got a full controller of the user and the card.
I can get whichever user I wanted from the user what its card information and all.
Okay, now.
Till now, all looks good.
Now what?
Things left.
Now let's see.
Now the major part is left.
Now user is constructed.
Uh, card is constructed.
Now lets you see that we have what left is order invoice and payment.
So it's like an order order part.
And now one more thing is whenever we are talking about order management system means this is something
which is independent, right?
It has all the information.
So now let's say I am creating one order.
I am creating an.
Order.
What does order has.
So first it has user information.
This order belongs to which user?
Let's say I have an address.
Uh, delivery address.
This order has to be delivered.
Where?
Right.
Also, it has, like the map, the same integer.
Comma.
Integer.
The same map.
So whatever information is there in the card, the same information.
Ultimately the all the product will move from card to order actually.
So it has category ID versus count.
This product this order will be fulfilled by which warehouse.
So it should have warehouse information.
Warehouse information.
Which warehouse fulfilled this order right.
And once this order is generated, this order should also have an any invoice associated with it.
Invoice and also the payment does order.
Payment is done or not.
So it has payment also.
And also one more thing is order status.
This might be an enum.
So now let's see go one by one.
So order has user.
This order belongs to which user.
So it has this information because we are talking about order management system now.
Right.
So this order related information has complete information.
That's why I haven't kept user has list of order.
No.
So order has all the information that it belongs to a which user.
So here you can keep it like list of order IDs.
So it also have ID order ID so user can maintain just order IDs right order IDs.
But it doesn't have order itself.
Right.
Write.
With the help of this order IDs, user can take out what all orders I have created in the past or open
orders also.
So user has list of order IDs, but order has user order has know about the address delivery address
it has.
What are the category, how much count I have to deliver from which warehouse I have to deliver this.
So it has a warehouse information also.
So let's say this information.
So order has warehouse warehouse era.
So order has.
So order has warehouse order.
Also know about invoice right.
So whenever you create an order and invoice will be created like whatever the product category you have
what are the count Account and invoice will be generated that this is the total price for this.
This is the tax amount and all this information.
So you have total price kind of thing.
Just understand the total price uh total tax tax amount.
So all this information you have inside this uh this one similarly order also have payment information
that uh, payment is uh what is the payment mode.
So what is the payment mode and all.
So this is as payment and you can have here like mode.
What is the payment mode and all these things.
Okay.
So let me now show you uh, so this is the high level of this thing.
Let me have one thing.
So where is our order?
Yeah.
So now here, if you see that we will go into more of invoice and payment.
Uh, let's first complete the order.
So now order has user address.
But in a system there can be many orders.
Right.
So we need one order.
Controller.
Order controller has list of order.
It has list of order.
Okay.
So uh, and it has certain uh getters method like get order by ID, get order by user.
Right.
So these are the information it can and app has order controller also.
OC order controller.
Okay.
So payment you can have payment mode.
So you can have a payment mode like uh uh UPI credit card cash on payment like this different payment
mode it has.
So payment can have Different payment mode.
Different payment mode.
Either a payment could be UPI or CC, and all right.
And order status could be in your enum order status would be your enum like pending, delivered or undelivered.
Something like this.
Okay, so now let's see the code of this and you will get and we will run one flow and you will get
the complete picture of this UML okay.
So this is the complete picture.
Let me now show you the flow.
So first thing product.
So this is the product which we created right.
This is the product.
Let me zoom it.
Okay.
So first product I have created product ID and product name.
Very basic.
Now.
The second was we created a product category.
So here I have a product category I have a category ID, I have created a category ID, category name
and list of products, list of products and the price okay.
So all these products will have same price right.
So these are the same.
And what are the methods I have.
Add product remove remove product.
Right now after this I have inventory.
Where is inventory inventory.
Yeah.
So what does inventory has.
Inventory has list of products.
There can be so many products category into my inventory.
So it is like a list of product category.
So inventory has product category.
Now next is warehouse.
Warehouse has inventory.
So warehouse has inventory.
Warehouse has address remove item from inventory.
Add item to inventory.
I have exposed it here.
So warehouse has inventory okay.
And warehouse has address, location, city, state and all.
Now we can have many.
So what next.
So we have warehouse controller.
So warehouse controller has list of warehouses.
There can be many warehouses.
So warehouse controller has list of warehouses and warehouse selection strategy.
So I have put one selection strategy where method is select warehouse.
What all strategy I have currently I have kept only one nearest warehouse selection strategy.
So certain algorithm which will uh give me the nearest warehouse.
For now I am directly picking whatever in the front of the list.
Right.
So during the warehouse I will get what are the strategy I need to use.
And based upon that strategy I will click select the warehouse.
So it would be dynamic.
Okay.
So this is done.
Now let's come to user.
Let me show you user.
So I have a user.
So basic user ID user name.
Address.
User has card.
I told you that user has card right.
And I am having a list of order IDs.
So it has order IDs.
So based upon order order IDs it can order call the order controller if required and get the details
so we can if wanted we can keep order controller also in the user if required based upon the use case
okay.
So there are there can be many users.
So I have kept one user controller.
Where is user controller here.
So here I have created this user controller.
User controller has list of users.
You can add user.
You can remove user.
You can get a particular user based upon user ID okay now we can see a cart.
So cart has integer, comma, integer, which is nothing but a category versus count which category,
how much product you wanted.
Okay, then you can add item in cart.
Remove item from cart.
Empty the cart.
Get the cart item.
We view cart.
Okay, now let's see.
Order related part.
We can have one order.
Let's say what one order.
Have order has user order has user order.
Like what is the delivery address?
What all the product category and the count map.
Okay.
From which warehouse?
We have to fulfill this order its invoice, its payment and order status.
So let's see first invoice.
Invoice I have kept very basic.
What is the total item price.
Total tax.
What is the total final price?
Simple.
For now I have kept it very static.
Whatever the product you will choose.
I kept certain static data, but we can have this on based upon the order you have this information
right?
Product category.
So from product category and how much count you can get the price and compute all those things then
for this order payment.
So I have a payment also.
First of all what is the payment mode.
So payment mode I have kept only I think two here card payment mode UPI payment mode.
So it's like make payment.
So when you click on you make payment.
So UPI payment mode will followed.
If you see card payment it will go through card make card payment.
Right.
So currently I have uh the make payment I have make true here.
Both.
Right.
So both are true for now.
So inside the payment payment mode make payment of let's say UPI I have for now I am returning true
that payment is successful.
So this payment also is in the order and also order status.
Order status could be delivered, cancelled, returned undelivered and there can be many orders.
So that's why I have order controller here also.
So I have order controller which maintain a list of order.
I have just this is not required.
I just added like if you give me a user ID and find out all the orders, I.
You can create multiple data structures which will help you to do a faster query just otherwise not
required.
Okay, it just list of order.
And now finally our product delivery system app which has user controller.
So it will have user controller.
It will get the full control over the user and card.
It will have warehouse controller.
With this it will get full control over the how to manage warehouse inventory and particular product,
and it has order controller through which it will control the particular order, invoice, payment and
any update it required.
So this, uh, product delivery, uh, controller has exposed certain interfaces like get warehouse,
get inventory, add product to the cart.
But I'll tell you now with a flow.
So the complete UML I have shown you the code also you can take it.
But now let's see one complete flow of this one okay.
So this is the complete flow I am now showing you.
So first I have done one, uh, kind of uh, fill up the system like I have added a warehouse, add
warehouse and its inventory.
So what I have done is I have created one warehouse and I have created two categories of the in the
inventory.
One category is like this large cold ring of this brand.
Another is soap category of this brand.
The price is 100 and I have added, uh, two products into this first category and I have created one
soap and put it into this category.
Okay, so this is the product, my one normal product.
I have a product ID and the name, and I have put into one of the categories that this belongs to this
category.
Right.
And so I have created my inventory and I have assigned this inventory to one warehouse.
So I have created one warehouse list.
Similarly I created a user I created one simple user right username and all.
So simple I have created one user.
Now I have assigned this to all my system that this is the warehouse.
This are the user in the system.
Now let's run one delivery flow.
Now let's say user comes to the flow.
What it will do get the user object let's say from the user ID at takeout the user.
So our app our this app has user controller right.
So from user controller it will take out from the user ID it will get the user.
So I'll get a user.
Now what this user will do internally we have to assign one warehouse to it so that from the warehouse
it can select a particular warehouse.
So from product delivery system I call one more method called Get Warehouse.
Now it has warehouse controller right.
So and I have assigned the strategy hey choose nearest warehouse selection strategy.
It might be depending upon user preference and all.
But for now I have select that that uh based upon this algorithm select one warehouse and assign to
this user.
So it calls the warehouse controller will call the select warehouse and it calls the nearest algorithm
where nearest selection strategy and get one warehouse.
Once the warehouse it get it, get all the inventory to show to the user.
Because this whatever the inventory is present into this warehouse, we will show this.
So when I call this, uh, get inventory method into this from this warehouse, it calls that warehouse
dot inventory.
So this warehouse has all the inventory which is present.
It will show this because warehouse has inventory, right?
Warehouse has inventory.
Okay.
Now inventory we are displaying to the user.
Now what it will do is user added the product to the cart.
So let's say user added one of the category to the product that for this category, this category chosen
at two count I want two items.
So what has done is add product into the cart.
So here what we have is we have user controller.
So user controller has user user has cart.
So from the particular user I get the user card.
And from the cart I add the item into the cart.
So here if you see that all the specific items adding or removing?
Is there inside a particular class only?
So I'm adding an item into the cart, removing the item from the cart in that specific.
So my main class is more like a orchestrator.
So it just orchestrating add product to the cart.
So I got a user.
So I had a user from the user, I got a cart and call add item this category id product.
And how much count this two count I wanted to add.
So it will add into the map this product category id add two count.
Now the.
Let's say I have added the product to the cart.
What I have to do next place order when you click on the place order right.
So this was the main method right?
Yeah.
So add product to the cart.
Now place order.
So when I'm placing the order I call this orchestrator place order.
So from the order controller it will call place order.
So place order is exposed by this order method.
Place order.
So from this order controller, I want to create a new order.
Like what?
All the items are present into the cart.
So from this user I passed into the parameter this user.
From this user I take out the whatever the cart information and from that cart information I fill the
information about this order.
Okay, so I have created a new order here and based on that, I am adding the details into this.
Uh, all the complete information I am putting.
I'm creating a new order.
So here.
So I'm creating a new order in the object.
Which order?
How much is the that from the user cart.
So see in the order, whatever the product goes, whatever present into the cart.
So from the user cart I get out all the cart items and put it into its map warehouse.
I have selected.
I am the parameter.
I am passing warehouse and all.
And then I generated an invoice also for this one.
So whenever you create an order invoice will.
I am automatically generated inside.
Also that invoice will be generated that for this product this much you have to pay.
And this uh so once it is done then the user can decide okay, I have to checkout or not.
So once it is do a checkout from the main model.
Now the fifth step is checkout.
So from the checkout again in the order method itself I have declared one checkout method.
So see.
Now this is thing happened in the checkout.
So when you are doing a checkout first thing is you have to update the inventory.
Because this much item we have to reduce.
Right.
So I am calling remove item from inventory when you are calling the remove item from inventory.
So from inventory we are you are passing the map order map like what all the count and category.
So ultimately the inventory it will call that okay.
Remove this item from this category.
So it will pick out a particular category and call remove method.
And if uh remove those method you can check the logic.
But what I just wanted to explain, once we do a checkout first we have to update the inventory.
Then we go for a payment.
Then we call make payment and the payment method.
I have chosen the UPI payment mode.
So it's payment mode will be chosen.
It will try to call payment and UPI mode will be selected.
Right.
So this UPI payment mode will be selected and it will return true okay.
So like payment is done now once the payment is done, if payment is success we have to empty the cart.
Empty the cart.
If payment is filled we have to add item back to the inventory.
Add item back to the inventory.
So here I am calling again the warehouse and add item to the inventory.
Whatever we have reduced, we have to go back.
There can be many use cases like if payment timeout also.
Then we have to add item to the inventory.
And all right so this is the complete flow I have shown you that when what happened when a particular
product has been selected and order.
So this is the UML diagram.
Go through it one more time.
You will get it easily right.
Product.
Product category.
Inventory.
Warehouse.
How they are interrelated to each other and how order management.
Also you can do order controller order product so they are all interrelated to each other.
I hope you understood this.
Check out the code once go through video one more time you will easily get it.
It's very simple question and the code I have also published into the GitLab.
You can check out from there and this UML I will upload there.
Okay guys, any question, any doubt let me know in the comment section.
I'll reach out to you guys.
Thank you.
Bye bye.

--- Flyweight Design Pattern (Structural Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do this flyweight design pattern right.
So I am making it right also okay so now let's go more deeper into this flyweight design pattern.
So two important questions comes on top of this design pattern.
And this one has been recently asked right.
Design a word processor or text editor.
And another is design in gaming scenario.
So there are a lot of games.
Uh, I will tell you the different scenarios in which this design pattern can be used.
Right.
So these are the two areas where this design pattern is widely used okay.
So let's first start with its definition like what is this definition says.
So first of all it's a structural design pattern right.
And what it helps to reduce the memory usage.
This pattern helps to reduce the memory usage by sharing data among multiple objects.
So you you should get one hint that whenever interviewer says that, uh, hey, we need to reduce the
our memory is very limited.
So it should strike in your mind that it can it be solved through flyweight design pattern or not.
Because its main purpose is to reduce the memory only.
Right?
But how?
By sharing the data among multiple objects.
So I'll tell you how it does.
How it shares the data among multiple objects.
Okay.
So we'll come to this one in more depth.
So let me first explain you the issue.
Right.
Uh, through a gaming scenario first.
And I will also tell you the issue with the word processor, how it solves it.
So now let's see first gaming scenario.
So now let's say I am trying to create a game where I have to create an army of robots.
Or you can say that, uh, I have to create so many robots of different forms.
Different types, let's say human robots, uh, human robots, and, uh, let's say a robotic dogs.
Okay.
So, uh, let's say I have to create so many an army of robots, right?
So many robots I have to create.
So how we can do it?
It's, uh, we can create a simple class.
What?
All information this class can have the position x axis and y axis, where the exactly the robot has
to be shown.
Okay.
Type whether the robot which you are creating is it of human robot or humanoid or it's a dog robot.
Or you can say that it's a robotic dog.
What type it is.
Okay.
And the body so generally spreads generally in computer graphics means a small 2D bitmap.
So it represents a either an image or animation, right?
So generally I've created a empty class for showcasing this.
But understand this a sprite in computer graphics something creates a image.
It creates an image.
It's a bitmap array 2D array okay.
And this is a very heavy heavy object.
Okay.
So now let's see that it is creating a.
So I have just created a constructor to initialize this okay.
So very basic object right.
We have x axis y axis type of robot humanoid or robotic dog.
And the are it's bitmap array where actually uh helps to create a this image okay.
Now let's say in the main method I told you I want to create an army.
Let's say I want to create five lakhs of human robots.
Five lakhs of robotic dog.
So I am running this for loop five times for human robots.
Uh, not five times.
Five lakh times for human robots and five lakh times for robotic dogs.
Okay, so I am creating a new robot, right?
Each time when the loop iterates, I create a new robot.
Give it a different x axis y axis where I want to show.
So I am creating a human robot.
So I gave it a type that it's a humanoid and I gave it a this sprite, that image, human image.
Right.
So just assume that it has all the humanoid sprite, like how it will create a human image.
It has all the information, right?
So this will run five lakh times.
So it will create a army of human robots of five lakh, right?
Similarly, I will run a five lakh times for robotic dogs.
So I am creating a new robot x axis y axis.
I gave it a type of robotic dogs and the image, the sprite.
The graphics which I am sending is for robotic dog sprite.
Assume that it this object has information.
How to render the robotic dog in image.
How to render its image.
Everything in the bitmap arrays.
Okay, so how many total objects will be created?
Total ten lakh objects will be created.
Now you know that each object takes some memory.
Take some space in the memory, right?
So now analyze this okay.
How many are what one object take how many space.
So it's an integer.
So integer is let's say in Java it's four byte.
So this is let's say it's a four byte string.
Let's say I am allowing 50 character To generally let's say Max, I can take so one character is one
byte.
So let's say this is 50 byte.
And this is generally a heavy object.
So let's say this could be in KBS.
So I will assume that let's say 30 KB or something.
Right.
So now overall you can assume that.
So 30 plus something something something just do an estimate that okay it's 31 KB.
It is required one object required 31 KB.
Assume that okay.
Just uh round off.
So for ten one object 31 KB for ten lakh, how many memory into 31 KB.
Right.
So it's I think, uh, it will become your GB 31 GB in memory.
So and let's say if your interviewer say that, hey, we have only 25 GB or 16 GB in memory.
So definitely this would crash.
Right.
So now we have to come up with something where we can save the memory.
So you understand the issue.
Now see, observe and understand where to use this pattern now.
Right.
So now you have seen one example.
Now I'll tell you how do you determine that this pattern you have to use.
First hint when memory is limited interviewer is saying hey memory is limited.
Memory is limited, memory is limited.
So this is our first.
And that memory should be limited.
Then only we have to use this pattern.
If there is no issue for the memory, generally it can be avoided.
Second, when objects share the data right?
So now here, if you see that I have created five lakh objects of human right, so where they actually
differs, where they actually are they sharing certain data?
Yes, they are sharing the data.
So for all the five lakh human objects type is same.
So this type is same.
And even the humanoid sprite, the image rendering part is also same.
So all the robots was gonna look like same.
All the robots gonna look like same.
So the same sprite we are sending, the same image gonna be rendered for each robot.
Humanoid robot.
So these two are shared between all five lakh human robots.
Okay.
So, yes, when object shares the data, then this pattern can be used.
Okay.
And creation of object is expensive.
So now here, if you see that the creation of object is expensive, this is, uh, creating this sprite
object.
2D bitmap array is a very expensive object also.
So these are all your hints that yes, flyweight can be used.
Okay.
Memory is limited.
Object shares the data.
And if if two objects doesn't share any data, you can't use flyweight for sure, right.
And creation of object is expensive.
Then it's another hint.
So I also wanted to tell you about this two words, which you will, uh, see a lot in this, uh, pattern.
One is intrinsic data and extrinsic data.
Generally I say is Andrew or Barry.
So I would say that what intrinsic data is, the data which is shared among objects are called instancing
data.
So here in the robots I have created five lakh of robots of humans.
So all five lakhs are sharing this two type and body.
So this is known as your intrinsic data right.
Extrinsic data is changes based on the client input and differ from one object to another.
So here if you see that the client is putting certain value right for the x axis y axis.
So it so extrinsic data is changed based on the client input.
So now here if you see that my x axis and y axis change based on the client input where I want to showcase
the robot.
So this is your extrinsic data.
And two robots cannot share this.
So two robots have different x axis y axis.
So they cannot share this data.
So all the data which cannot be shared between two objects and its value coming from the client, those
are known as extrinsic data.
All the fields.
Or you can say that all the data which is shared among the different objects, that is known as instancing
data.
Okay.
So just understand this.
We're gonna use this term okay.
So now you know that in what scenarios we have to use this pattern.
Now let's see how to solve the issue in the gaming scenario.
How to solve the issue.
So first let's go through these four steps.
And then we'll uh see the demo.
So from object remove all the extrinsic data and keep only instancing data.
So what first step says that remove from this whatever the object which you are creating remove all
the extrinsic data from it.
So here extracting data is these two.
So remove this remove this remove all the extrinsic data and keep only instancing data.
Okay.
And after that, this object is called as flyweight object.
So now this objects generally which has only instancing data means data which is shared among different
objects.
These kind of objects is known as flyweight object generally.
Okay.
So the first step is remove all the data from the object.
Then this class can be immutable.
Immutable means.
You can once it once you have uh give the value to this field, you cannot change it.
So you know right how to create a class.
Immutable.
You can make those private and only provide the getter no setter methods when there is no setter method.
You can't even change these values only one time during constructor you can assign the value After that,
you won't be able to change its value.
So they are immutable.
Okay, so second thing is, since we are saying that these are the common data, these are the interesting
data which are shared among multiple objects.
So we can make them immutable so that once the value is defined it cannot be changed again.
Okay.
What.
And what about the extrinsic data which we have removed so that can be passed to the flyweight class
in method parameter so that we can pass this an extra method parameter.
We'll see.
And another last is just remember this.
Just keep this point.
We will see and it will get more clarity.
Uh once the object is created it is washed and reused whenever required.
Okay.
Now let's see with an example.
And this four points will become more clear to you.
I am now changing this robot the issue into a proper solution now.
So first I created an interface, let's say robot I robot interface.
Robot okay.
And I told that in a game I want two type of robots human robots and robotic dog.
And both implement this interface.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that from the robot I have removed the extrinsic data x axis y axis which changes
I kept only the intrinsic data.
So intrinsic data was type and the body.
So I kept type and body right.
And I made them private.
And the constructor through which I will set this for the first time.
And I have made I have only made the public getters.
There is no set method.
So once you create an object and define this value, there is no way you can change the value for this
one.
Okay, so now I have created this immutable class right?
And I have kept only instance data.
Similarly for the robotic only I have kept only the instance data.
And I have make it immutable.
Only getter methods is there.
Okay.
And in the interface of this robot I have put a display method.
Right.
Uh, so I have.
So it has to implement this as it's a child of this.
So now here, if you see that in a method, I am passing the x axis y axis.
So I told you that extrinsic data can be passed to the flyweight class in a method parameter.
And in the robot x axis.
Y axis is something which changes, right?
So that's why I am passing it through method parameters.
Now let's see how to use this.
So now I have created a flyweight of a class.
You can say that private class with this.
Now, last thing we have to see is that okay we have to cache it.
Also how to cache it.
So to build a caching.
So let's say we create a robot factory okay.
So now here if you see that I created a map string and robot.
So now here if you see that this is something interesting data shared among all the objects.
So now I have used type as a key here okay.
So type would be humanoid or robotic dog.
If it's a humanoid I can return this object because it has the same sprite and same type.
Okay.
So that's why I am in the map.
Robotic map.
Uh, this one I am creating a cache.
The first one is your key and this is your value.
So key.
I am going to be used as a this type with a humanoid or robotic dog.
And then I will return the object.
So I have in the factory I have created a method create robot and in the input I am getting robot type.
Okay.
Which object you want to create?
Robot or humanoid or robotic dog?
So first before even creating this is important.
Before even creating the object, I am first checking in the cache.
Now.
Hey, does this robot type means humanoid?
Let's say I want humanoid.
Hey, does humanoid exist in your cache?
Right?
It says that yes, it exists.
Then I will return the same object.
So now let's say I have two objects.
I have already created one object of humanoid, right?
I know that another object is also going to be the same, only differs in the location x axis y axis.
So that's why I am in the humanoid robot objects I have kept only which are shared among data.
So type I can safely use as a key.
And because it's body this data can I can reuse it for rendering.
Right.
So that's why if robot type is present into the cache I will return the object.
If not, then I will create one humanoid robot.
Right.
I will create one time I have to create the sprite because let's say first time, the first time it
is coming.
Right after that I will put into the cache.
Similarly for the robotic.
Now let's see how to use it.
So first time I am creating a first robot for I am.
So this is my screen.
Let's say I am trying to create a robot army.
Uh, five lakh uh, humanoid and five lakh.
Are your dog robotic dog.
So first time I am doing robotic factory dot create robot humanoid, right?
So cash, your map is empty first.
So does robotic cash.
Contains, uh, robot type is humanoid.
Does it contains?
No, it is empty.
So what it will do is it will construct this, uh, bitmap array, its image, then it will create an
object and then put it into the cache.
So now in the cache I have like okay, humanoid and its object.
Okay.
Now once you have got the object of humanoid, I am calling the display method with the location where
to this.
So now I will call this humanoid display method and pass the x axis y axis extrinsic data and it will
just use the graphics and the location and it will render the image.
So my first image, let's say render at this place.
Now I want to create another robot.
Now let's see this again I'm calling a factory dot create robot humanoid.
So I go this and I check.
Now I am first checking the cache.
Hey.
Humanoid exist?
Yes, yes, it become true.
Yes.
Exists.
So now it will return the same object.
Now it will return the same object.
So it is not created another object.
So now I got the same object.
So now means I am sharing the data.
Right now I am calling the display method and just passing the different location where it has to be
rendered.
So it calls the display method.
Pass the extrinsic data.
Now it will use the graphics like okay, how to display the image of the humanoid, but it will render
it at different location x axis y axis.
So another robot will get displayed.
So now here, if you see that only one time object is constructed for this robot, only the extrinsic
data differs in location, right?
It's only rendering part is uh differs but object creation part we are reusing the objects.
We are reusing the object.
Similarly for uh, dog robotic dog, only one time object is created.
The second time they gonna call a robotic dog, they will use the same object.
Right.
And just put a different display at the location.
Okay, so you got it.
So this is the game.
Now we will see also the text editor.
So now you just see that you have uh interface.
Then you have, uh, concrete classes.
You can say that which is a child of it.
Then you have one factory which does the caching.
And then it's your driver method, uh, which calls this.
Okay, so you understood this, right?
Now let's see word processor one.
So I think when you see this example also it will get more clarity.
So now let's see that uh.
In the word editor you have to have a let's say you have.
So this is I want to type in a word editor.
This is the data we want to write into the word processor.
Okay.
So you have to type t h I s space is something like this.
How we will do it.
So let's say I have created a simple character class.
Let's say.
So I'm telling you the first issue.
So character.
What character I want to have let's say t.
So let's say first I have to put T then h.
So so character is let's say t.
What is the font type.
So what.
Because there are so many font types.
So let's say what is the font type the size and the row column.
So let's say this is your row.
This is your column where to put this t okay.
And the constructor and the getter setter.
Now just see this example uh here.
So now I want to in the editor text editor I want to write this.
This is the data we want to write into the word processor okay.
So now how many total characters are there.
58 characters.
So 12345.
So till 58 characters we have.
How many?
T is coming?
Seven times one, two.
Three, four.
Right.
And if you see that all t looks exactly the same, all T looks exactly the same.
Even the size is same.
Okay?
Only the differs in the x axis y axis their coordinates.
Okay.
So this is one.
Notice similarly you see that h h is repeated three times.
All looks same only differs in the x axis y axis.
But if we don't use the flyweight pattern how you will.
So whatever we have done, what we have to do is we have to create a new object every time.
Okay.
First is T so I have to put a T like this font type is this size is this row and column.
So let's say this is my row.
So okay I put t okay, then I have to put H at row zero, column one.
Let's say I put H, okay.
The same area and all.
So you have to do it for 58 times because there are 58 character.
But understand that there is a document which have lakhs of character.
So will you create a lack of object?
No.
This would become a memory issue.
Then how to resolve this?
Okay.
So the flight rate can be helpful in this.
So the same way first created an interface.
Let's say I have put a given a name interface letter I letter the display.
Now here the first thing that you you notice this thing that only this in this class these are same.
This is same.
So this is your intrinsic data character font type size.
Let's say t.
So all t which will come.
Let's look exactly the same.
The character is same.
T t t t t.
Font type is also same.
Size is also same.
Only they are different in the row and column.
So this is your extrinsic data.
So as part of flyweight what we have done is from the object keep only intrinsic data.
Remove the extrinsic data.
So I have removed the row and column from it.
I have kept only the extrinsic data which will always remain a constant okay.
And if you see that I make them immutable private method and only getter method.
No setter methods okay.
And in the interface I have one display method.
So I have implemented Overrided that display method and provided extrinsic data should be passed as
a parameter method parameter.
So I am passing the data row and column here.
Now let's see one factory because we need a caching also, right?
So I created a factory letter factory.
Okay.
So now uh here the key I have chosen a character.
Yeah, I have chosen a key as a character, let's say t.
So once, uh, if user is wanted to type T, if already t is created, I will take out it.
Okay.
The font type, the size will all will be the same.
Only.
Okay.
So the key I am using is the character and then the object.
So now let's say I have written this method.
Create a letter and user want to type t.
Let's say let's say here letter factory dot create letter.
So it is calling this method what it wanted to type t.
Let's say I wanted to type t.
So first character value is your T currently.
So first initially your map is empty.
So character cache contains key.
No it doesn't contains key.
So it goes into the else part.
So it creating a new document character it creating a new document character it passing the character
value which is nothing but a t uh format I am using is let's say Arial and ten.
Okay.
So this data is set and this object has been put into the cache.
And the key I have used it character value.
So t now let's say second time I want and uh before even setting time.
So the t now I am calling the display method row zero column zero.
So whatever the object got created for this character I am calling it a display method.
Okay, I now I want to display it.
Now it will display at this row and column or some coordinates.
So now this T would be printed.
Let's say this is row zero.
Column zero.
Now let's say I want to create another object again.
T so letter factory dot create a letter.
So it will call this method again.
Now I am passing again T.
So now before even first creating another object first it will check.
Hey character cache does contain this T.
Yes it contains.
So it will reuse this object right.
So it will reuse this object.
So now it will return the this object only.
Now this object dot display okay.
So this is object.
So this object dot display row column.
So it will just say that row column and just display this character.
Okay.
So at row zero, sixth column, maybe, uh, it will row zero six column.
It will display another T.
So now here, if you see that we are creating only one object for T, no matter if there are thousand
times I have to type t, only one object is created for the t.
Similarly, for one object I would be created for a similarly capital A, I have create one object,
right?
So you got it right for each character, each different character I will create one object.
Right.
So all this different.
So let's say T is used 1000 time.
All this 1000 characters will share certain properties.
So I am currently in this example the what properties they are sharing.
Okay the character name is same.
Let's say this T the font type, the font type of all are same.
Let's say Arial Aerial size is all same.
Okay.
But let's say you have a different use case that okay.
Font type can be different.
Size can be different.
Then that could be another.
You have to create some other key.
But this is a simple example.
I wanted to show that in the text editor memory issue can come and how you can resolve it using flyweight
pattern.
Okay.
As in you see in this example we created two t with only one object.
Similarly, if there are 1000, you have to type t t t t t.
Only one object will be created.
Only differs in extrinsic data which is coordinates.
Okay, so that's all about the flyweight design pattern.
Guys, if you have any question any doubt please let me know and go through this.
Once again you will get more clarity right and try to implement it with some different example guys.
Okay guys.
See you.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Command Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

So.
But before we I tell you about command design pattern, let me first tell you a simple use case and
see what problem exists today, which and how command design pattern solves it.
Right.
So let's take this example.
So as I told you, what things comes to our mind is generally remote control text editor cut copy command.
So I have taken a use case of remote control right.
So I have created one simple class air conditioner.
Class.
Right.
And what does air conditioner has whether it is on or off and its temperature.
So I have declared one method turn on the AC where I'm changing this flag to true and system is on.
Similarly, I have turn off the AC where I am making this flag to false and your AC will be now off
state.
Similarly, I have one temperature set temperature method where whatever the user wanted to desired
temperature to have, it will put the temperature in the input, we will set the desired temperature.
Okay.
So this is very very basic air condition class.
And this is your client and how client use it.
It first has to create an AC object.
Yes AC now exists.
Now it will operate it.
It will turn on the AC.
It will set the temperature and turn off the AC.
Very simple.
Do you see any issues in this?
Right.
Do you see any issue?
Stop the video.
Think about it.
Put it into the comment.
What all issues do you think?
Then proceed further.
So let me tell you what all the issues I see in this example first issue which I see is your lack of
abstraction.
So here, if you see that the client has to has the knowledge of okay, turn on the AC, set the temperature,
turn off the AC.
What if tomorrow today it is very simple.
One method.
Turn on the AC.
AC got turned on.
What if there are a set of methods is given and these set of method has to be performed to turn on the
AC.
Let's say that there is not.
No one method exists.
Turn on the AC.
There is certain steps or set of methods exist, and these method has to be executed to turn on the
AC.
Let's say then client has to has the knowledge about that.
Okay, if it want to turn on the AC then it has to know about all these steps.
Right.
So there might be many, many internal sequence of steps might be happening when you click on the button
turn on the AC.
So what I'm trying to say is that let's say this is a very straightforward example, but let's say in
the real world, if air conditioner class has so many methods and there is nothing like turn on AC method,
there might be a certain small small methods existing and you have to perform those steps to turn on
the AC.
Then client has to has the knowledge about of all it and any change on those steps client get impacted
also.
So first thing is lack of abstraction today.
Process of turning on AC is simple, but if there are more steps client has to aware all that which
is not good.
So that is first problem I see is there is a lack of abstraction.
Second thing is undo redo functionality.
So see whenever sometimes uh things is like command control C, control V these are all command copy
command delete command paste command.
The one thing which comes to my mind is how you will undo the operation, how you will implement the
undo operation, how you will implement the redo operation.
Right.
So in this let's say for this example, if you have turn on the AC, if you have to undo it right,
how you will do undo it.
Is there a way you will.
You will call another command turn off.
But that's not undoing.
So let's say you have invoked ten times certain commands now, and you have to undo it.
Right.
So that capability, how you will build it here in the simple.
Right.
Because we are talking about command.
And you know that wherever the command happens, it's possible that we have a feature called undo.
Also, this is a very, very important interview question.
Also how you will perform or implement the undo redo operation.
Right.
So that things which is like what if I want to implement the undo redo capability, how it will be handled.
Well client gonna handle it.
If yes, then that's a very, very bad design.
If client has to keep the knowledge about what all command it has or what all command and the sequence
of commands it has given, and whenever undo has been done, it has to do in the reverse order.
So client never should have knowledge about this.
It just give like okay I need to do undo.
Then who will do?
Will air condition will do.
No.
Air condition is a dumb operation like dumb object.
It's like on if somebody will say hey, turn on, it will get turned on.
If somebody will set the temperature, it will get temperature.
Why?
It will take a responsibility to do the undo operation.
So who will do so in this design I would also see a problem of undo redo functionality.
It's very difficult to implement.
The third one is difficulty in code maintenance which I see.
So what if in future we have to support more commands for more devices?
So let's say today we have air condition.
Let's say we have another called bulb.
So today was only air condition.
Let's say I have added another bulb.
So bulb also has something called is on turn on bulb.
Turn off bulb right.
So does client.
Should have now air condition functionality.
Then it should have a bulb control functionality.
Turn on the bulb.
Turn off the bulb.
Right.
So that become code maintenance become very, very difficult.
If there are hundred devices will now client will become has to know about all the hundred devices also
right.
So it become become very very difficult in code maintenance because your client will become very very
bulky and very, very tight coupled with these objects.
Right.
Anything got changed into this client will get impacted.
So these are the three major issues which I see today.
It might not be an issue very simple.
But because of this three in future development it might cause an issue.
Okay.
So now how to resolve it.
How command design pattern resolves it.
So what command pattern does it.
It divide the logic into three parts.
So there is simple.
In this simple air condition and client it divide.
It identifies the three things.
Who is the receiver?
Who is receiver?
So it put receiver code into the receiver class.
Then invoker who is the invoker?
He put the invoker related code here and there is something called command okay.
So now invoker generates a command and this command is intended for particular receiver okay.
So now your client use this invoker to generate a command which is intend or control a particular receiver.
So now let's see this the same example air condition with the command design pattern.
So first of all let's see this the receiver.
So air condition I told you it's a receiver.
So it's the same example I have used as the above.
It has two things is on temperature.
I have a method.
Turn on AC, turn off AC.
Set the temperature right.
Very simple.
This is a receiver.
Okay then what I need was is this command.
So invoker use this command to control the receiver.
So there is a something called now command.
This is the second part is command.
So this is your first part receiver.
Second part is your command.
So in command there can be multiple commands.
It's not like so remote has let's say 20 buttons.
So for each button there could be a different different command let's say.
So I have created an interface.
Interface command I command right.
And I have put one method execute.
So I have created different different command.
Turn AC on command.
Turn AC off command.
Similarly, you can put another, let's say, uh, set temperature command.
Right.
Just I'm saying what all different, different things can come.
You can put other different command with one remote control with one.
Like what?
All commands are possible through one invoker.
So this is your invoker, like a remote.
So one particular invoker can generate what all commands.
You can put it here, expand it.
There could be 20 command, 30 command 40 command.
No matter what.
Whatever the invoker can generate a command, you can put it here.
Okay.
But let's say for this example, I have taken that only two commands are possible.
Turn AC on command.
Turn AC off command okay.
So this is an abstract method.
So both the classes concrete command class has to implement the this right.
So here if you see that they have an object of what receiver.
So that's why I have put that the concrete command class has receiver.
Right.
So here we have an AC object.
So this I am using the constructor to initialize this object.
Right.
So now but this is the main part.
So here I am using this AC dot turn on.
And in the turn off command what it is doing calling the method turn off.
So one thing you might have noticed that what we have done is so this turning on logic, turning off
logic, I have put up in an appropriate command class right today.
It is very simple, but maybe in future if this get changed, only this particular command class will
get changed.
If there is a change in the receiver to do a particular command, only particular command class get
changed if the process of turning on the AC gets changed.
Only this particular class turn AC on command will get changed, right?
So they have the receiver object and through this they are performing their command.
Okay now this is the third which is invoker.
So here I have my remote control.
So I told you that this remote is your invoker.
So this remote has, you can say that button which generates a command.
So they have access to command.
So here remote control has command object.
It has remote control has command object.
Right.
So now I am setting the command whatever the command whichever the button client will press that command
will get set into this.
And whenever the button is pressed what it will do is command execute command dot execute.
Okay, so it will make sense with this.
Now now let's say this is the client.
So first I am creating an object AC object.
So let's say AC got exist.
Then I am creating a remote.
Let's say remote now remote exists.
Now what I am setting is.
So let's say there is one button.
Understand that remote has only one button right?
So and the remote object I am setting a command.
What is the command I am setting?
Turn AC on command.
Okay, so in the remote control I am setting the command.
What command?
I am setting one particular command.
Right.
Let's say I put turn AC on command here.
So this command has turn AC on command.
So I have set the command here.
Turn AC on command okay.
So this is has the turn AC on button now.
So this is the real code of the object.
So till now what I have done is I have I've done a setup, I have a setup for the AC, I have created
the remote, I have done the remote has a button which internally might be.
I have set up the turn on AC command.
Okay, so now this is actually what clients are interested in.
Client will just simply press the button.
So now client will simply press the button.
Press button.
Now what will happen is remote object my control press button.
So this method get invoked.
What it will do command dot execute.
What command it has is this button already has turn on AC command set right.
So turn on AC command so it will call dot execute.
Turn on AC command execute.
It will turn on the AC.
It will change its status okay.
So now here if you see that the client here the client doesn't have to worry about it all.
Have to worry about Press button, that's all.
It doesn't have to worry about anything.
This three line of code set up AC object remote.
This is.
You can say that for testing purpose, we have to create.
We have to create an AC.
We have to create a remote.
We have to create a button for that one.
Right.
But all client has to do is press the button.
Once it press the button the in the remote control.
When it press the button, a particular command will be used to invoke the.
Receiver particular method.
Okay.
Got it.
So now the question comes is hey how you will perform the undo redo functionality.
Let's say interviewer has asked me design the copy paste undo redo functionality of a text editor how
you will do it.
So I have solved this simple with this is like the same thing.
First receiver is there.
Does receiver change?
No, it is exactly the same.
Turn on AC, turn off AC, set temperature so there is no change in the receiver.
Second this is your command.
So here I have added one method undo.
So for each command whatever it's this is exactly same as the previous one I'm setting using the constructor
to assign the air condition object.
And in the execute what this command is turn on.
So in execute it will turn on the AC.
Then I have one more method undo.
So what it will do is undo what it has to do.
It has to do turn on the AC undo in this it will do turn off the AC.
Similarly turn off command.
What execute it has to do is turn off and undo its turn on opposite right.
So I have added one undo method here.
Third is your invoker.
So this is your remote control.
So here what I have done is because from the remote control from this invoker, I will generate the
command because here whenever I press the button, I am generating one command, right?
So here I have used a stack command history.
Right?
So now what I am doing is this is exactly same.
I will set the command which command I want to invoke.
Assuming the same thing a remote control has, let's say only one button.
And whenever you press a particular button, one of the command will get generated, which I will set
into here.
So I will set the command first.
And whenever a particular button get clicked press button.
It will execute that command.
So let's say I have turn AC on command.
So it will call its execute option.
But I am also adding into an stack a stack of command.
So let's say turn on AC command.
Second time button pressed it will again add into stack.
Turn on AC something right.
So what I'm trying to say is that in the remote control, which is an invoker, which is the place from
where the command get generated, you can put a stack and whenever the command is generated, you can
put that command into a stack here.
Right.
And what will happen is it can we can expose one undo method here in the invoker itself.
What it will do is it will check the stack and pop up the last element.
So last element would be one command only.
Right.
What.
Because we are doing different command.
So it take out a one command.
And now what it will do is it will do call the undo operation.
So if command pop out or turn AC on it will call its undo operation.
It will turn off the AC if the top command was turn off the AC.
So it will take out its undo.
It will do turn on the AC and the client simply has to do it.
This is just a setup.
I have set up an AC.
I have now a remote and let's say in the remote.
I have set the command to turn on the AC.
Turn AC on command.
Right now I am just pressing the button.
What it will do is press button.
It will command or execute.
It will turn on the AC and after that it will put into a stack, uh, this command.
Right.
This is the command turn AC on command.
It will put into the stack.
Now I want to do undo.
I will just simply call undo method.
What it will do is it will take out from the pop okay.
Turn AC on command.
It will call its undo method.
It will revert what it has done.
So here if you see that client doesn't have to worry about the undo redo functionality, it just okay
guys, hope this is helpful.
Right.
And if you have any doubt, please feel free to ping me on the comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Iterator Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do a iterator pattern okay.
So let's start.
So before we jump into how iterator pattern works let's first understand what is the usage of the iterator
pattern.
And to understand the usage of iterator pattern there is no better example than Java collection itself.
So this is the diagram which I have taken from my Java playlist, right where I have explained the collection
in depth.
So here, if you see that in the Java collections there are different types of collection like priority
queue, array, dequeue, linked list ArrayList stack Hashset linked Hashset.
Right.
Each stores the data in their particular manner like linked list uses which data structure linked list
ArrayList using which data structure arrays.
Right?
So each maintains the collect the data in their own manner, right?
But whenever you want to iterate over it?
Do you client does have to know that okay this is linked list.
I have to access in this particular manner.
No okay.
This is stack.
I need to access the element in this particular manner.
Does client bother about the knowledge of how to access the element?
No.
So for this collection has provided one iterator method.
So here in this example I have created a new linked hash set.
This and I have stored certain data.
Now it might used uh hash HashMap internally.
Right.
Uh on HashMap plus linked list internally to store the data, whatever it would be.
Right.
But does client.
So this is let's say you are this is your client.
Does client has to have this knowledge about it.
Like okay if I want to iterate I am accessing linked hash set.
So it should be accessed in this manner?
No.
So client doesn't bother about what type of collection it is, right.
How the data is stored in this particular collection.
It knows that the collection has given me this iterator method.
Once I get this iterator object, I can use Hasnext and next and it will help me to iterate.
Hasnext will tell that okay, is there any more element?
If yes, go inside and get me the value out of it.
Okay, so now no matter if I'm using linked hash set here or Priorityqueue here or stack here, this
logic will remain the same.
This will work for all.
Okay, but you can ask me a question, right?
Hey, how this actually works, right?
How this iterator which collections expose this iterator method, how this actually works.
Actually that this iterator pattern.
So if you understand the iterator pattern, you will get your answer that how this code works for all
type of collections.
Okay.
So now let's go into deeper.
It is a behavioral design pattern okay.
That provide a way to access element of a collection sequentially.
So that is the first use.
It helps you to access element of a collection sequentially without exposing the underlying representation
of the collection.
You don't have to worry about what is the underlying data structure used to store the data.
You can it iterator pattern can help you to access the element sequentially, right?
You don't have to worry about the underlying representation of the collection.
But how?
Let's see this.
So let's see this UML first.
Then we'll see an example okay.
So here in this UML what the first we have is iterator right.
This is the first iterator is the interface which has exposed this two method Hasnext.
And next.
Okay.
So has next usage.
Is that okay.
If there are any more element in a collection it should return true.
And when the next method will be invoked, it should return the value which the current pointer is pointing
to okay.
Then it is implemented by the concrete iterator, right?
So the Hasnext and next implementation is done by this there can be many concrete iterator.
There can be.
So this is concrete iterator one.
Concrete iterator two.
There can be concrete iterator three.
There can be many concrete creator.
And each one can implement their own hasnext.
And next right Depending upon the data structure.
Data collections.
Okay.
So now let's first understand this with our Java collections how it is done.
So here if I go here inside this collection.
So this is the iterator.
Iterator.
So there is a class called iterator which is uh it's an interface.
So this is the interface which is first created in Java collections also package also iterator right.
It has this two method Hasnext and next.
Now there can be many concrete iterators.
Now let's see that which all things has implemented.
Let's open ArrayList.
If I open ArrayList let's see which implements iterator okay.
So here iter is the class which is implementing the iterator.
So in ArrayList there is something called iter.
Now here.
If you see that it has implemented the hasnext.
If cursor is not equals to the size of the collection means yes, there is still some items and cursor
will keep on increasing.
Whenever you call next.
Right.
So cursor it will I plus I plus one right.
And the next will return the element okay.
So it has its own because in the ArrayList the collection it has to work.
So it has written its own logic how to how to fetch the next element.
So what I am trying to say that here you can have as many iterator as possible.
So each one, each class here has implemented the iterator.
They have created a class.
You can say that they have created a class local class where they have implement this iterator and implement
these two methods.
So we can have for this iterator we can have many write iterators right.
And they work on this collections.
Whatever the collection, if it is a linked list they know that how to do hasnext and next right.
So this collection we will set it up.
I will show you an example.
So if this collection is let's say an array, they will know that okay how to fetch it.
If it is an stack they know how to fetch hasnext.
And next.
Right.
So they work on this collection and perform this so we can have as many iterator as possible okay.
Now what is this aggregate.
Now let's see the third class which is present.
So aggregate is also an interface.
So aggregator is aggregate is something which collects the data.
So here in this example these are all aggregate priority queue array dequeue.
These are all aggregate array list if you see that.
They are maintaining the collection there.
This is the maintaining.
They are maintaining a collection of the data.
So aggregate is what aggregate is maintaining the collection.
It is maintaining the collection.
Here the list.
Right.
So this is just a one example I have taken concrete.
There can be many concrete.
Let's say uh for example uh if you are maintaining let's say ArrayList, then as soon as we have seen
this, it is maintaining an internally using an array data structures to hold the data.
Right.
So it would be using array.
Maybe if you are using linked list it is using linked list data structure.
So first node second node like last node it is using that one okay.
But what does aggregate means is it is a collection of data.
So for this example I have taken it as a list.
So I am using as it is maintaining a list okay.
And this aggregate also expose a method.
Create iterator means it also provide a method which help us to iterate over this collection.
Right?
So each whatever the concrete aggregate you will write, they have to provide the implementation of
this create iterator and they should return an object of this.
Which concrete iterator you should use to iterate that collection.
Now let's see an example.
It will clarify fully, right?
So now I am taking an example of book and library.
So here I have created a book very simple class like which has a book name and the price.
The book constructor is used to set the book and price and this is the getter setter getter method setter.
I'm using the constructor.
Okay, so now here I am first creating an aggregate right?
So aggregate I have created and its concrete implementation I have created is library right.
So library it is very similar to consider this as this priority queue.
Eric queue.
So they are maintaining a collection.
So for now simplicity I am using a list as a collection.
So it's maintaining a list of what books.
Right.
All these books it is maintaining a list.
So I am maintaining the list of books and using the constructor to set this variable.
Okay.
And in the aggregate interface I have this abstract method where it is a create iterator.
So a library has to implement provide the implementation for this there it has to tell hey which iterator
you should use to access this.
Now, I told you that there can be so many iterators, right?
So each aggregator has to choose its own iterator depending upon what data structures.
Right?
So I define the iterator.
So here now we see that in a particular interface iterator.
These are the two methods Hasnext and next.
So I have written book iterator which implements this iterator right.
And it has the collection which it has to work on right.
So I pass this book list from library in this constructor.
And this gets set right.
And it will return this book iterator object.
It will return this.
So it creates.
So this create iterator will create the book iterator for this and return.
Now using this object, we can access over this list of books using Hasnext and next.
So Hasnext you can say that okay, currently I have put index equals to zero.
So Hasnext is zero is less than book size.
Let's say they are.
What is the book size.
So for example 1234.
Yes there are more books.
So whenever somebody do next I will get that book and increment the index.
So index will increment.
So it will become one.
Then somebody do is there any more data.
Yes it is.
More data is present.
So it will return true.
Then somebody do.
Next it will fetch that and increment it.
It will go to like this.
So this book iterator if you see help us in iterating the list of books this collection.
Right.
So this is the client.
So in the client I have created a list of books.
I have created a list of books and I have put four books right.
I have created a library, and in the library I have set this books.
Okay, so now my library is set.
I have set the books like this library has.
These are the books list.
Now if I want to iterate now this is the client right.
So client doesn't bother whether what internally how this library is storing this list of books I don't
care I want to iterate it so it can invoke the create iterator method.
Right.
So I call the create iterator method of the library.
I got the iterator object.
So what object it returned?
New iterator this one right.
Now what I will do is I will do.
Hey has next.
Yes.
If there is more value dot.
Next return me the value and I will print it.
Then again, Lupe will go.
Has there more value?
It will say yes.
Then it will get the value dot next and then print it right.
And using this index every time I do next index will increment.
So I will get different different value.
And once the index will be your for means we are iterating all the elements.
It will come out of the loop.
Now there is doesn't matter.
So currently today we have only library.
Now let's say you have some other aggregate concrete aggregator or some other concrete aggregator right.
So now doesn't matter.
Today you have created new library.
Tomorrow you can create some new some other class concrete aggregator two class, some other class.
This would remain the same.
Why?
Because they would be.
They would also have to implement the create iterator method.
this and they should provide which iterator to use either book iterator you want me to use, or some
other iterator you want me to use.
And whichever iterator will do that has to implement this two methods Hasnext and next right.
So for this client has next and next only it has to know what they will do.
Hasnext if true, it will return true if there are more value, next will return me the value.
But it doesn't have to understand what is the logic I have to do to fetch the next value.
Is it an array or linked list or data structure like whatever it is, stack trees, whatever where I
have stored the data, all this logic would be present into this iterator concrete iterator to hasnext.
It will do an next there that there will.
It will have the logic to fetch right.
So for client this logic will remain the same.
You got it.
So now let's see the collections here also.
So here the collection.
This is your what.
This is your.
Aggregate right.
Aggregate expose the method.
Create iterator.
So there it has exposed the iterator.
Right.
So we have given the name create iterator.
It has given iterator.
Now there are concrete aggregate.
So what are the concrete aggregate aggregate in this collection.
These are the concrete classes.
This all pink purple one.
Right.
Pink one.
So these are all the concrete aggregate.
So now let's go to any let's say ArrayList.
Right.
So here.
Concrete aggregate what it has.
It maintains the collection.
So I have already showed you that this is the ArrayList.
It is maintaining the collection.
So it is keep on storing the data.
Now this concrete aggregate also has to implement this create iterator.
So in this example it was iterator.
So iterator it has to implement.
Okay.
So here if you see that it has implemented the iterator.
So it is returning the new iterator objects.
So like we are returning the new book iterator right.
It is returning its new iterator which is should be used to iterate the collection.
So now let's go into this one.
So here it implements the iterator.
So this is this part.
So it implements this iterator.
So iterator is an interface I have already showed you which has hasnext.
So iter is the one which implements this.
And it has Has next and next like how to access it.
It is defined.
So it is working on this element's data right.
So if there are more iterators you can add it.
Right.
And if there are more aggregate you can add it for each aggregate.
You can define which iterator to use.
And with this client can access without worrying about what data structure is used internally to store
this data.
It doesn't have to bother it.
With the help of the iterator pattern, it can simply access it using this.
Okay, I hope you got it.
It's a very like the biggest client of iterator pattern you can say is the Java collection itself.
So do practice it one more time and you will find it very easy.
So it's very very straightforward.
And if there is any doubt uh, please ping me on um comment section.
We can discuss more.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Mediator Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys, welcome to the new LED video where we are going to design an online auction system using
mediator design pattern.
So with that today I will also make this mediator pattern tick Mark.
Right.
So and also one more thing.
While I will tell you about the mediator pattern and the online auction system.
So you can say that this airline management system this can also you can say that is an example of mediator
design pattern.
So have that in mind also.
Right.
So we will go with that okay.
So let's start designing the online auction system.
But before let's understand what is mediator design pattern.
Right.
And using that we will design the online auction system.
The mediator pattern is a behavioral design pattern okay.
So it's a behavioral pattern.
It encourages loose coupling by keeping objects from referring to each other explicitly, and allow
them to communicate through a mediator object.
Now, what does it mean that whenever two object has to talk with each other, right?
Instead of directly talking to each other, they will talk with some mediator, right?
That's the name.
So they will send a message to mediator.
And mediator will pass the message to the receiver.
And similarly, if any message comes from receiver it goes to the mediator and mediator pass to it.
So they don't know about each other.
This object one and object two doesn't know about each other.
And whenever they have to pass the information to any other object, they will pass it to the mediator.
That's what it says, that it brings a loose coupling by keeping objects from referring to each other
explicitly.
So no two objects Explicitly call each other right.
So and allow them to communicate through a mediator object.
So they both are communicating through mediator object.
So that's what its definition is.
And this is what its UML is.
So I will come to the UML later.
Now lets see its online auction system example.
And we will construct this UML itself using the example.
And then we'll come to see it would be very very easy for you to grasp.
So you know that what happens in the online auction system is in the online auction system.
There are so many bidders, right?
So they are bidders and they bid, they bid, they place bid.
Let's say this person has placed a bid for ₹1,000.
Now, whenever a person place a bid, other person knows that, okay, there is a bid which has been
placed for ₹1,000.
Now they have an option whether to increase it or whether to place a bet with a higher amount or not.
Right.
So now they can other person can place a bet with higher amount, right?
And whoever keep the higher amount bid that wins.
So that's generally an auction system.
And now let's see that in this auction system this person's let's consider them as consider them as
an object.
They don't have to directly communicate with each other.
Right.
Even though they are placing a bid, there is you can say that a mediator like they send their bid to
this and this will tell that, okay, this is the bid amount.
Anybody want to raise the bid or not?
So they are not directly talking to each other.
They are talking through a mediator.
Right.
So that's why I told you that online auction system is one of the example of mediator design pattern.
And similarly airline management system I also find that this airline management system is also very
good example of mediator design pattern where multiple flights right where multiple flights interact
with airline management system.
So let's say uh, multiple flights are like want to land and all.
So they send a message that, hey, I want to land, can I land or not?
So airline management system checks with any other airline or not airplane or not.
Right.
Based on that, they take a decision.
But these two planes never talk to each other.
So airline management system chat application will, uh, build in low level design.
Whenever we are talking about low level design of chat application, airline management system, mediator
design pattern seems to be that it's a very accurately depict what they actually wanted to to perform.
Objects never interact with each other, and they interact through some mediator here in this airline
management system here.
This is with the chat application.
Any two person will interact not directly.
Okay.
So you got it right.
How this mediator design pattern comes into the picture of this online auction system.
And how come it is very well, uh, fitting this example of this bidding and all.
So now let's see its example.
Let's build out so as so here we have an interface.
So this is an interface which is known as colleague.
Right.
So here this colleague you can consider it as like your actual work where you can have multiple objects
right here in the online auction system.
This bidders are your colleagues which are working actually right.
Which are taking participate.
So this colleague is an interface.
What they can do They can place bid right.
They can receive notification.
What is a bid notification some other person has placed and what is their name.
Right.
So this is an interface colleague.
So I have created one child class concrete class bidder which implements this colleague.
So you can say that this is a relationship.
So bidder is a colleague.
And it has two things name and auction mediator.
So we will come to this auction mediator in soon.
Just consider that it has a name.
Right.
So we have set the name whenever we will create a bidder object through constructor.
We will set its name right.
And whenever they have.
So they have a method through which they can place a bid.
We will come to this implementation, but understand that there is one method through which this bidder
can place a bid, and this is one method through which they will get a notification if any other bidder
has placed the bid, right.
And if you want to know the name of this bidder, you can get it.
So this is very simple.
Let's say we have created first bidder with a name.
And they have two functionality that they can place a bid and they can receive the bid information like
what other person has placed any other bid.
Okay.
So in a system there can be so many bidders, right?
There can be so many bidders.
So let's say whenever I will create an object, right, I can create one bidder.
Two I can create so many bidders.
Right.
So that's why I give them a name.
Colleague.
Right.
There can be so many bidders and no two bidder interact with each other.
So how they gonna interact with each other is through mediator.
So now we have created one auction mediator.
This is also an interface, right?
This auction oxygen.
Mediator.
I have created one concrete class.
Oxygen.
So this is you can say that is a relationship.
So oxygen you can say that is a uh it.
Implement this auction mediator interface.
And what is the two functionality.
This interface has ad bidder place bid okay.
So now in the ad bidder.
If we have five bidder, ten bidder, ten bidders.
Right.
They all have to interact with each other, right?
They all have to interact with each other.
So there is some mediator.
So they all have to talk.
So they all have to add them to a mediator.
Right.
So that's why what I have done is I have created a list of colleagues, list of colleagues here, right
list of colleagues.
And in this colleagues here in the ad bidder, In this list, I will add the bidder.
So that's where it is.
So inside now you will see the bidder class right.
I have put this auction mediator as an object.
So this has actually so this has so there is a has a relationship.
So bidder has auction mediator.
Right.
And while creating a bidder object we can also pass the auction mediator like because there can be so
many auctions going on.
Right.
There can be 4 or 5 auctions going on.
So this bidder belongs to which auction we have to send.
Right.
So we will pass an object of the auction mediator.
And during auction mediator we can setting the name.
We can set this auction mediator and calling this auction mediator dot add bidder.
So here now I have added the bidder Bitter.
Right now I've added the bitter.
So now this bitter has been added.
Okay, so add bitter clarified.
Right.
So here we can add all the colleagues which are participating in this auction.
Now the second method which is place bid right.
So now in this place bid right.
If you now goes to the bidder class again there is one method right place bid.
So I told you that whenever they have to place a bid, they have to tell to the mediator that hey,
place a bid of, let's say ₹1,000.
Place a bid of ₹2,000.
Nobody talked directly to each other, right?
So what it does is whatever the mediator, auction, mediator is present object.
We will call the place bid.
Right?
This is the bidder which is placing the bid.
And this is the bid amount.
We will pass whatever the method has.
So this we are placing a bit.
So now here if you see that place bit so it now knows which bidder has invoked this method and what
is the bid amount.
So now what it has to do is what here I'm doing is I'm iterating over this list and I'm just seeing
that call the receive bid notification to all the bidders like different bidders.
So I'm just checking the name that whoever has called this place bid, right.
I don't need to send his method receive bid notification for all other bidders.
I have to send this notification.
So what I am doing is mediator is iterating over all this bidder list and it says that hey, just call
the notification to all the bidders which are different than who has placed the bid.
So it calls this bidder this bidder, this bidder better that.
Hey, there is a bid for this amount by this person.
This is just a printing I'm doing.
But actually they got to know about the bid amount that yes, this is the bid amount which has been
done.
Now all the bidder now knows about that.
Yes.
This is the bid amount which happened.
Now they can take an action upon it.
Okay.
So now if you see that the UML of mediator this is very similar.
Right.
So that's what.
So we have a colleague interface right.
In the colleague interface we can have so many colleagues.
These two colleagues never talk with each other.
They talk with mediator.
Right.
And that's why mediator maintain a list of colleagues.
So here just for example we have two colleagues right.
Colleague one colleague two.
See this mediator has both the colleagues.
Right now in the set mediator.
Whenever the set mediator, we can put the mediator like, uh, which mediator they belong to.
So as in our example auction, there can be so many actions so we can set the auctions right.
So instead of set mediator method how we have set it here through constructor itself.
So we have constructor itself.
We have set this mediator.
So in the UML of mediator you will set that there is a set mediator.
And there is a send message.
Now whenever they have to send a message they have to call this whatever the mediator we have said they
have to call this mediator send message method.
Now this send message method, what it will do is it will iterate over all the colleagues and call their
receive message method.
Receive message method.
Right.
We can add certain logic that whatever the received message, whoever has called the send message,
we should not call its received message.
We should call other colleagues.
Receive message.
Right.
So here, if you see that this online auction system we can easily build using mediator design pattern.
So this this is clear or not we can expand this functionality of auctions to more.
But if you see that the base right can be easily built with mediator pattern.
And I would say that this is the base, there could be a lot more logic or functionality in the auction.
Now we can add up more into this.
We can add more methods, more functionality if required.
Right.
But just to summarize, we can have multiple colleagues like here I have a bidder.
We can have ten of bidders.
So now here if you see this an example.
I have created one auction manager.
Auction manager object.
Right?
I have created one auction.
Now I am creating two.
Beta one.
Beta two.
I have given the name creating the bidder object here constructor and passing the name and the auction
which they are participating.
So they both are now participating in the same auction.
So as they are part of the same auction mediator.
Okay.
Now bidder one is placed a bid of ₹2,000.
So bidder one place a bid.
So in the auction it will place a bid.
Okay.
So it will call this method right?
It will call this method.
Place a bid.
This one.
Now what it will do is it will iterate over the list.
Now in this list, both this bidder are present already right?
In the constructor itself, we have added them in the mediator.
We have added them into the list.
So now it will iterate over both the bidder and see that hey bidder won.
Bidder A has called the place bid.
So I, I have to call other bidders.
So that's why I'm checking if only on other bidders I have to call the receive notification right now.
Similarly let's say bidder two plays a bid.
Now again same thing the same.
A different bidder is calling the mediator place bid.
And now the bidder A will get the receive notification.
Right.
So like this we can do I hope this is clarify you.
If you practice once you will get to know easily that with this mediator we can perform lot of uh questions
like airline management system, chat application, online auction system.
And this is very, very simple design pattern.
So one thing I think can questions comes to your mind.
It looks equivalent to observer pattern and proxy.
So in proxy also in observer also what we have is we have one observable and multiple observers.
Right.
And any change happened to this observable it notify to all like how our mediator is doing.
Right.
Any message it received from any object it calls other it notify all other similarly in observable it
notify to all whenever any changes happen to any particular object.
So here if you see that intent is very different and the functionality or you can say that the problem
they are solve is totally different.
Here mediator is solving the two objects should not interact with each other.
Right.
But observable is that if any state is changed for one object, all the other objects which are interested
in it should get notified, right?
So intent is totally different.
And here in this proxy also we have, you can say that a kind of a mediator proxy.
Right.
And whatever whenever you are trying whenever somebody is trying to access this object it will goes
through this proxy.
And from proxy it will goes to here.
And from this it will goes to the real other object.
So let's say this is object one.
Object two.
So here also it acts as a mediator.
But again intent is totally different.
So here what proxy is trying to do is that it makes sure that it do.
Lazy loading.
Lazy loading means is that whenever the request comes it will have lot of condition or checking whether
are you authorized to invoke this object or not.
Right.
Or or any other check.
And then based on that it will load it will call it.
Right.
So lazy loading logging.
Right.
So lot of things which proxy does its intent is totally different okay.
But again you if you see as a high level at a top level, you will see them as a again they are working
as a some mediator.
Okay.
So that's pretty much today for the mediator design pattern.
And I think you can if online auction system comes into the interview you can use this pattern.
And if more functionality is required we can build up based on this UML itself.
We can add more functionality to this UML.
Okay okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- LLD of Apply Coupons on Shopping Cart Products ---

Hi.
So this is the question which has been shared to me by one of our member.
Uh, it has been recently asked in an interview, write to him.
So the question is given.
Shopping cart with products and coupon.
Calculate the net price after applying coupon on products.
Coupons can be different type with certain condition and three condition.
It has given like n percent of that is 10% off for all the individual products, P percent off on next
item d person off or nth item of type T.
Or you can say that like different conditions of applying the coupons.
So currently it's three.
You can say that in future for five six more conditions can be added right sequentially.
Want to apply all the coupons on the card and given the total amount and get the total amount.
So the question is, let's say that just to brief that in a car shopping cart we have product.
And for each product there are a possible way that multiple sequence of coupons can be applied right
based upon the conditions, certain conditions.
Right.
So each product is eligible might be eligible for more than one coupons.
Right.
So that is you can say that one of the point and ultimately we have to find out the total amount which
has to be paid okay.
So if you see the objects which comes into this picture is definitely shopping cart coupon.
Right.
Product.
Now if you see that it is very, very easy also to get diverted toward a the bigger, bigger picture
of this LED where we have user payment, right?
Kind of an inventory.
So that becomes your like an inventory management system like so I'm in my view this question is very,
very dedicated to this piece of information itself.
Right.
So I'm so that's what that's one of the point where I am keeping aside user payment and all invoice
and everything.
So I'm staying focus on this part.
Now here if you see that right.
Uh so one thing which I can see is that once you have a product, it is possible that we might have
to apply.
Coupon one.
Coupon two, coupon three, or maybe let's say not coupon three, coupon seven, three coupons.
I have to apply, right.
And get its price.
Similarly, for product two multiple coupons can be applied.
Let's say coupon for coupon one or coupon eight.
Different coupons applied.
Right?
So for each product, multiple coupons can be applied at a time.
Right.
Uh, so here, if you see that to me it looks very, very similar to decorator pattern where what decorator
pattern is where you have an original product.
Right.
And without touching that original product we can add certain capabilities to it.
So here we have applying coupon one to it.
We are again decorating it with second coupon.
We are again decorating it with more coupon right.
So whatever the product amount would be let's say it was ₹100 after coupon one, it would be let's say
₹90.
After this it would be 85.
After this it is 81 and ultimately the final its amount.
Similarly for each product, we can decorate it, and ultimately, whatever the amount we will get,
we will sum it up and return the total amount.
So that's this question.
Looks to me very, very similar to decorator pattern.
And I have tried to implement it using the same.
Right.
So this is the implementation I will show you the coding part also.
So this is I have saved the screenshot.
So here first here if you see that.
In a shopping cart I have created one class shopping cart.
Shopping cart has list of product right.
So now let's see a product class.
So here we have.
So I created one abstract class product.
So shopping.
Has like product.
So now here if you see that this is an abstract class product, what does product I have kept?
I kept name what is the original price and the product type.
Right.
And product type is one enum which I have taken.
And I try to keep its category like electronic furniture.
Like any decorative like this.
So I have kept the product type.
So this three variables.
It has name, original price, type and using the constructor to set it up right.
And I make this method abstract get price.
I'll tell you why.
So now this product like I created many childs like item one, item two.
There can be many items right.
Which are the child of this.
And I have implemented this get price method right get price and ultimately for currently it is returning
the original price, whatever the original price I have set.
So whenever I will create an item while creating an item.
So here if you see that I am creating an item, let's say fan thousand rupees and it's a electronic
good.
Item two is so far original price is 2000 and it's a furniture good.
So now I am creating each item.
So whenever I call get price, it will return the price which I have set.
So this class is your product class.
And this product class has composition with shopping cart.
Shopping cart has list of products.
Okay now see that how I am using a decorator is now there can be lot of coupons right.
So that's where I did I create one coupon decorator right.
So I create one coupon decorator.
And if you see that it extends from the product itself.
So here, if you see that it is extending from the product.
So is the relationship.
Right.
So it is extending from the product.
So now this coupon decorator.
Now this itself is a product.
Now.
Now this is itself is a product.
So let me make a straight line just a second.
So this is.
Is the relationship.
The coupon decorator is a product now.
So now there can be multiple coupons in our system.
Let's say I have used two of the coupons.
Like we can have more coupons also if required.
First coupon decorator which I have or first coupon which I have taken is percentage test coupon decorator.
So in the percentage coupon decorator, it's like for every product I have to provide, let's say 10%
of the discount.
So here what I am doing here is so this percentage coupon decorator.
So this is your is a this is again your is a relationship here right here.
Now here.
If you see that this percentage coupon decorator has product so it.
Has a relationship with the product.
So ultimately what we are doing is we are doing a decorator pattern here.
So what I did is that the product which it has right.
So I am setting it up based on the constructor the product and the percentage.
And in the get price.
What I am doing is product dot get price and calculate the discount.
So whatever the discount we will set let's say 10%.
So I am getting the price after 10% discount.
I will tell you I am using it similarly in the type coupon decorator, right?
This is also one of the coupon decorator.
I also have the product and the discount percentage and based upon the business logic, right.
This type coupon is like for a particular type we have to give the discount.
Let's say type is electronic.
Then only we have to give a discount.
So just for the clarity, purpose or showing purpose, I have created one static list of eligible types
on which type coupon can be applied.
So like I have kept furniture goods and decorative goods.
Right.
And using the constructor to set the product percentage and the type right now this is the price which
it will calculate.
Okay.
So now let's see that how I am doing that.
So in the shopping cart.
The shopping cart has two method.
Add to cart and get total price.
So in the shopping cart whenever you will add a product, right?
What I am doing is I am first.
You can say that decorating it with the coupons.
So whatever the coupons we have in our system, we can add it over here.
And based upon the business logic, uh, internally, the decorator itself, it can decide whether the
coupon has to be applied or not.
Okay.
So that's why I'm doing.
So here, if you see that I am adding a product.
So let's say I'm adding it, uh, adding the first product to the cart.
Now this first product, what I am doing is new type coupon decorator new Percentage coupon.
Decorator.
Right.
And its constructor parameters I am passing.
So now here what we're actually gonna happen is.
So I am creating a type coupon decorator first.
And if you see that type coupon decorator this which is extending the coupon decorator.
This itself is a product.
Right.
So that's why whatever the product I'm getting, I am decorating it.
But ultimately the outcome is the product itself.
So when I'm creating a type coupon decorator, what in the constructor what I am passing percentage
coupon decorator.
So here in the product I am passing percentage coupon decorator okay.
Now in the percentage coupon decorator what I am passing This product ultimately the product, this
product.
Right.
So it is like this I have a product.
This product is been decorated by percentage decorator percentage.
And this ultimately get decorated by type coupon decorator okay.
So like this I have done and keep on adding the product to the cart okay so now till now let's see that
I have added created product one and product two.
I have created item one, item two.
Like this.
Right.
So here I am using first I'm creating item one and item two.
Item one is of ₹1,000.
Item two is for ₹2,000.
Then I am creating a shopping cart object and adding this both the items to the cart.
So when I'm adding to the cart.
So both the products is getting decorated like this, right.
So whether this coupon can be applied or not, that logic depend upon inside the decorator.
But I have decorated like this.
Right.
And I in the constructor I have passed like percentage coupon 10% discount type coupon has to provide
3% discount like this.
And I have added into the cart.
So here now what I am doing is once I have added into the cart, I am getting calling the total price.
So now when I the total price is called inside a shopping cart, what I am doing is I am iterating over
the product.
Now for each product I am calling the get price method.
Okay, so now in this product list, ultimately this product is not stored.
This decorated product is stored.
This Ultimately this is also returning the product only, right?
Everything is product here.
This coupon decorator is also a product.
So now here what I am doing is it will first the get price of this type coupon decorator.
So it will call the get price of this type coupon decorator.
Now here it is calling product dot get price first.
So what is the product here in the type coupon decorator.
So product here is percentage.
So here if I go the product I set it is the percentage inside the constructor of the this one.
So here first I am calling get price.
So first it will now call this percentage coupon.
It will call percentage coupon.
Right.
So, like, what is happening is.
This is your product.
This is your percentage.
This is your type.
So I called the price over here, but it says that hey, before you calculate my price first calculate
this price percentage one.
Now percentage will say that product dot get price.
What is the product I have set to the percentage.
I have set the real product right.
So first I am setting item one.
So item one get price will call it ultimately is original price.
So here if you see that it will say that hey call the get price of this original product.
So for the item one item one original was thousand rupees.
So it will get thousand rupees to this one.
So thousand rupees price is what thousand rupees.
And it will conclude 1000 -1000 into discount percentage.
How much discount percentage to the person?
We said 10%.
Right.
So it will provide 10% discount.
So it would be your ₹900.
So get price.
Percentage will compute 900.
So now it is going out right.
So it compute 900 and it return back to this.
So this price is your 900.
Now it comes to here.
Now it says that hey eligible types contains this type or not so eligible.
Is this too only when the product type is this to this discount can be applied.
So whatever the item one is it item one product is electronic good.
Does electronic good is applicable for this discount?
No.
Then it would skip it, then it would skip it and the price would be set as 900 plus, right?
It was iterating in a loop.
Now the second product will come product dot get price right.
The same similar part will happen.
It will goes to the type from type.
It will goes to the get price of the percentage and from the percentage it will first calculate the
ultimate product.
So product is your item two.
Item two is of ₹2,000 and it is furniture.
So here internal it will return ₹2,000.
And now it will goes back to percentage.
So 2000 into.
10% right.
So I think it will return ₹1,800 to the.
Type.
Now it goes to the type.
This is your 1800 1800 into eligible types contain furniture.
Yes.
So it will go inside and discount percentage 5%.
It will give more discount to that one.
Right.
So ultimately it provide certain 1700 something.
So 1700 something.
This would be ultimate total price.
So here if you see that I can run it up.
And total price after discount is 2646.
Right.
So this is so I am not explaining decorator pattern here.
But just wanted to show that no matter how many more coupons can be added it can be easily supported
through decorator pattern.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Visitor Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do this visitor pattern into the LD right.
So I'm making it tick Mark.
So let's start without wasting any time.
And before we go through this visitor UML and solution I, what I want you to understand is what is
the problem which visitor pattern solves actually.
So can you look at this class and tell me like what is the problem you see with this class.
Very simple class right?
So in my opinion, I can see that there are two issues with this class.
One of the issue is that let's say this is a simple basic hotel room class.
Right.
And what I have added is operations.
Okay.
One of the operation is get room price.
Another operation is initiate room maintenance.
Third operation is reserve room.
Similarly, more operations can overcome be added right over the time more operations can be added to
it.
So by looking at this class, one thing I know that okay, today let's say with this three operations,
I have tested my class fully, fully tested.
But in future, if any new operation is added, let's say operation X is added.
If any new operation is added, then I might have to test it this class again if something not should
not be broken, right.
So this class has to be tested again every time a new operation has been added to it, right?
So that is one of the issue.
What is the second issue, which I see is that this class can grow.
If you don't know how many operations can be added, let's say slowly, today is only three operations.
Maybe after six months this class may host around 50 methods.
Or you can say that 50 operations.
So this class can grow huge right?
So that is the problem which actually visitor pattern solves.
Right.
And if you see the visitor pattern definition itself, what it says that this pattern allow you to add
new operation, allow you to add new operation to existing class without changing their structure.
Means to let's say that if you have created the hotel class today and you can add new operations like
in future, if like no matter 50 or 100, whatever the operations you are adding, keep on adding it.
You don't have to touch this hotel class hotel hotel room class, right?
So that's the functionality it provide.
It allow you to add new operation to existing class without changing their structure.
It is achieved this by separating the.
I would say that not algorithm.
It would say that separating the operation from the object on which it operates.
So what it does is it takes all this operation.
And separate it out from the class.
How it does, how it separate out this operation, I'll tell you, but it's separate out this operation
from the class, and you can keep on adding on those operation.
And you don't have to touch the class itself.
Okay.
So it is a behavioral design pattern.
And you know now what it does it allow you to add new operation to an existing class without you have
to change it.
Right.
And it separate out the operation actually from the class.
And this is the problem it solves.
So By the end, you will get to know about double dispatch.
Actually, it uses double dispatch to separate out the operation from the class.
When I was saying that.
Okay, from this class, we will take out this all this operation we will take out from this class how
it is through the help of double dispatch.
So don't worry about double dispatch.
Now, once we will understand with the example, you will easily get to know that.
Okay, this is what double dispatch is okay.
So we will come to this definition again at least once we have understand with an example okay.
So this is its UML diagram visitor design pattern UML diagram.
So here.
Where you don't try to actually uh just give it a quick glance.
Then we will see with an example.
Right.
This UML become more and more clear.
But at least have this, uh, terms in your mind that, okay, we have to create one interface II ten.
For interface we have to create one element interface.
Then we can have so many concrete elements to it, so many concrete elements to it.
Similarly, we have to create one interface visitor.
We can have so many visitor concrete classes of it.
Right.
So two things.
It has element and visitor.
Okay.
So just have these two things when we will see an example.
And then we will come back to this UML.
You will actually understood this UML very very properly.
Okay.
So now I am taking an example of let's say hotel booking system.
Let's say a very simple room room chart.
We will see.
So let's see an example that I am creating first this room element interface.
Right.
So this is your the I element which I created right this part.
So I am creating this I element.
Okay.
So I created an interface room element.
And I have added one method except right.
So here this except is what it is expecting visitor okay.
So we'll see that part.
So here you need to first understand what is element.
We are what to whom we are to which object we are calling an element.
So here you remember that starting I told you about hotel room.
Right.
So that can be considered as an element.
So any object on which you have to add operation.
Right.
And you have to take out the operation out of this object.
That object, we have to mark it as an element like so from this element we will take out the operations,
take out the operations from this element.
Okay.
So from the above example from the hotel room, we have to take out all the operations out of that class.
Right.
So that's why I created that room as an element.
So it's an interface and it is accepting one method.
It has one method with the name accept.
We will see that.
So now I created this interface right.
There can be multiple type of rooms single room double room deluxe room.
Right.
So each are you can say that a child of room element.
So they are is is the relationship right.
And they implements it.
They implements it.
Single room implements.
Room element.
Double room implements room element.
Deluxe room implements room element.
In future, maybe we can have another child class.
Let's say a presidential suit implements room elements.
So there are different type of rooms in a hotel.
Okay, so since it's an interface, each child class has to implement this method except method.
Okay.
So currently we are not seeing this except method.
We will see like okay what this method does.
But one thing first point is clear that to which object you have to create an element, the object from
which you have to take out the operations.
Right.
So from rooms there can be multiple methods we have seen.
Right or multiple operations.
I have to take out this operations out of this room.
So that's why I created this room as an element.
And there can be multiple type of room single room, deluxe room, double room.
We can add those.
It can grow in future.
Also.
Now you can ask me, hey where are the operations and where are those how we are handling this now?
Room reserve room, room price, how we are adding it.
It has just one method.
Except now here.
If you see that the second part comes is in our UML is visitor.
Right.
So visitor is something which host all the operations.
So now here if you see that I created the room visitor right in this room.
So this is an interface.
Now all the different type of operations that can be done on an object.
So my object is room.
So all the different type of operations that can be done on a room We can have concrete classes for
it.
So let's say for room visitor, I can have room pricing.
Visitor.
Another is room maintenance.
Visitor.
You can add more.
What are the different operation?
Reserve room.
Visitor.
Right.
So you can have.
For each operation you can create visitor.
You can create visitor.
Now here.
If you see that in the interface what method we have is visit.
Right.
And if you see that we have one method for each of this concrete element for each of this concrete element
okay.
So here if you see that I have one visit method which accepts single room I have visit method which
accept.
Double room I have visit method which accept.
Deluxe room right.
Which accept this object.
Now I should be able to perform multiple operations, right?
So first operation I have created a concrete visitor class room pricing visitor.
So here if you see that I have implemented this method, visit method for a single room.
I have added my logic to compute the price.
So it is pricing visitor.
Right.
So pricing related logic I have put into this visit method.
Then for double room.
Double room has its own pricing logic.
So it is setting its own price price computation logic of double room.
So in the single room price computation of single room.
Third method is for deluxe room, right.
So here I can have operation for pricing for this room pricing computation computational logic of deluxe
room so we can have that right second operation, which we wanted like say on this room is maintenance,
right?
So for each method now if you see its implementation, they are doing kind of a maintenance work.
So for the single room it is performing maintenance of single room might be some other logic.
For double room method it is performing maintenance of double room.
For deluxe room it is performing maintenance of deluxe room.
Similarly third operation reserve room.
So we can have all these three methods and they perform their own operation on the particular objects.
So now if you see that what we have done is single room might have multiple methods, deluxe room might
have multiple methods like reserve room, price maintenance and more.
Now here, if you see that those methods are not present here, Those methods are gone there.
Visitor.
So we have created a for each operation we have created a visitor.
Right.
So maybe in future we have any new operations coming in, we can just add a new visitor.
Right.
And for all this elements we will support this methods.
Right.
For all this element we will support this.
Let's say in future we will add a new method called presidential suit new element presidential suit.
So we have to add it here public void visit presidential uh presidential suit and its object.
Right.
And we have to provide its pricing, its pricing here.
We have to provide its implementation maintenance.
We have to provide it.
Implementation wizard It presidential suit and provide its implementation for reserve.
We have to provide.
Implement this method and provide that implementation right now here.
If you see that how it is working is.
So now now look at this method again except method which is present into the element.
So here it accept a visitor like what visitor you want to pass if you are passing a room pricing visitor.
And here if you see that this single room implementing this accept right.
So here let's say visitor I passed I want to calculate the price.
Right.
So from the uh runtime the client can pass the visitor of this one, this operation visitor room pricing
visitor.
Then it will cause its visit method.
It will call this visit method.
That right?
Which one from?
Single room.
Right.
I am passing single room.
Object this so it will call this method.
Let's say for double room you want to invoke the maintenance or method.
How you will, uh, initiate the maintenance uh, method.
So here, if you see that in the room visitor, I can pass an object of this visitor room maintenance
visitor and room maintenance.
Visitor will call the method visit now.
Which method to invoke this double room object.
So it will call this double room maintenance method.
Right.
So both the problems are solved with this right.
So first problem is that let's say you have tested this class.
You have tested this class.
You have tested this class room pricing visitor.
All the operations are tested properly.
Right now, let's say you are adding new operation.
You are adding new operation.
Right?
A reserve room.
Do you have to touch this room?
Maintenance visitor method?
No.
Do you have to touch this?
Pricing?
Visitor methods?
No.
Okay.
So once you have tested any new operations added, you won't have to touch it.
Second thing is, will a one particular class will grow?
No.
So here, if you see that this all.
So any new operation will come.
It will grow horizontally not vertically.
One class will not grow to a massive.
It will grow like a horizontally.
For each operation, we will create one visitor.
Right.
And it can grow horizontally.
Right.
And they support a method for each of this elements.
Now here you can ask me.
Right?
Hey.
how the double dispatch comes into the picture here.
Okay, so till now, you understand here, right?
What we are doing.
So here, now, let's say that we have to call whatever this thing.
Let's say this is the method.
Now I have created an object of single room, double room and deluxe room.
So this is an interface room element, but it has a single room object.
Double room object, deluxe room object.
So I am creating three objects here.
Now I am performing an operation on the object.
Right.
So first for the single room for this object I am calling the accept method, but I want it to call
a which method pricing method.
So I am which visitor I am passing it.
Room pricing.
Visitor method object.
Right.
So when it call the accept single room object dot accept.
So single room object is a room element.
That's an interface.
But the object it has is new single room.
So it will accept.
It will call invoke.
It will call invoke of single room.
This accept will get invoked.
This will get invoked okay.
Now it invoked.
And in the argument what object we have passed we have passed pricing visitor object this one.
So again this is an interface.
But what object it holds.
Room pricing.
Visitor.
So now this room pricing visitor.
Here I am calling the visit method.
So in the room pricing visitor it is calling the visit method.
Which visit method it has to call this visitor or sorry not this one this this this object single room
object.
Right Which we are invoking single room object.
So it will actually invoke single room.
This method.
Right now let's say I want to invoke the double room.
For the double room I want to invoke the maintenance.
So I have a double room object.
This is the double room object right?
For the double room object I can call accept method.
Now I want to call the maintenance.
So maintenance visitor.
So because visitor is an operation right.
So maintenance visitor operation room maintenance visitor I am passing.
So first it will call the accept method room element.
So it's an interface.
So this is a reference right.
So it calls the accept method of what double room double room.
So for the double room it will call the accept method.
Now Now.
What is the visitor?
We are passing here.
Visitor.
We are passing is maintenance visitor object the new room.
Maintenance visitor.
So what object?
It will call room maintenance visitor dot visit.
So here.
Room maintenance visit dot visit.
Now which visit?
It will call this.
What is this one?
We are passing double room here.
This is the object right.
So double room object we are passing.
This is the double room object which we are passing.
So it will call this double room right.
So here I think it's pretty much should be clear by now.
Right.
What visitor is trying to do.
What.
So it takes out of the operation from the class.
Earlier I used to have create room class.
And inside this room class, I would have created, uh, reserve room, calculate price, uh, do maintenance,
all this thing.
But now I have taken this method out.
And for each operation, I have created a visitor.
Right.
And as soon as in future, more methods or more operation comes, I can add.
Keep on adding the visitor.
Right.
And based on this, you already know that how to invoke a particular method.
So that's actually why we are invoking.
Right.
We did double dispatch.
So before understanding the double dispatch you need to understand what is single dispatch.
So so see both you already know we have done we what.
We have both we have done here.
Single dispatch double dispatch here.
But just to clarify separately that okay, this is the single dispatch.
So here if you see that we have a room we have single room.
Double room.
Deluxe room.
Right.
And it also has method, except it also has method.
Except it also has method except.
Okay, all three has method except this is an interface.
This is also has except, but it's an abstract.
Now when you are creating an object like this room.
OBJ equals to new deluxe room and you are calling obj dot.
Except you know right.
It's a basic polymorphism right.
So with this reference interface reference you are calling an object or calling a method.
But which method it will invoke whether single room double room or deluxe room.
What.
So it will check okay.
This reference holds an object of what?
Deluxe room.
So it will call this object.
This is known as single dispatch.
Single dispatch means the method which has to be invoked.
It's dependent upon one object, right?
So this method except which method except method has to be invoked.
It depend upon one object.
This.
What object reference I hold.
Double dispatch means the method which has to be invoked.
It depend upon two objects, right?
One is the caller and another is argument.
One is caller and another is argument that is known as double dispatch.
So here if you see that we are doing double dispatch here.
So I'll tell you this part where we are doing a double dispatching.
So just a little bit clear me up so that it would be.
Yeah.
So let's see that double dispatch here.
So you can tell the first dispatch right.
So now I am calling this method.
Just see this method.
Right.
I am calling single room object dot accept.
So single room object.
This is a room element interface reference.
This is just a reference.
Now it is calling accept room element.
This is the room element.
We are trying to invoke an accept method.
And this is a reference which accept method.
It will call whether single room, whether double room or deluxe room it.
We will see that it's a reference of single room.
So which it will invoke this first.
So this what happen is single dispatch happen.
This is single dispatch happen.
Now here I am passing in the argument.
Another reference, another reference room pricing visitor.
So here again this is an room visitor is an interface room visitor.
Here is an interface.
And I am passing this interface here reference.
So I am passing this reference here I am passing this reference here.
But this reference holds an object of what this reference object reference points to which object room
pricing visitor.
So now here, if you see that when this accept method got invoked invoked using single dispatch, this
visitor was room pricing visitor.
So now it is calling dot visit.
Now the second dispatch happened.
Right.
So here, if you see that this is the actually the double dispatch is happening at this point of time.
So this is the reference is happening.
I am passing the reference here.
Right.
Room pricing.
Visitor.
Right.
But what element.
Room visitor.
The interface now interface I am calling dot visit.
So there are visit uh so many visit.
Visit one.
Visit two.
Visit three into this visitor.
Then we have visitor in visitor here also in maintenance visitor also.
So which visitor I am talking about.
So it does a first dispatch here.
First dispatch is single dispatch.
It does is, This is.
This room visitor is pointing to what?
So internally it will calculate.
Okay this it is trying a this reference is pointing to this room.
Visitor room pricing.
Visitor.
Okay.
So it knows that okay it has to call the visit method of this room pricing.
Visitor first.
First dispatch happened.
Now double dispatch okay.
This class also has so many visit visit visit now which visit to call you are calling visit but which
visit now this is the second parameter.
This is the second parameter.
So now it is telling that hey this object.
So what is the object.
It is passing here single room object.
Single room object.
Again pointing to the new single room.
So it will call new this single room.
So now here, if you see that the method which has to be invoked is now dependent on two object.
First the caller and the second the argument with the caller.
You get to know that okay, this is the class in which this widget method is exists, because there
might be different classes in which the widget method is there.
Okay.
So with the first caller you got to know that okay.
This is the class through which in which the widget method exists.
But if there are more than widget method which widget this this reference which hold this reference.
So this is the single room object reference right.
So this one.
So the method is decided based upon the caller and the argument.
So visitor pattern uses double dispatch functionality T to take out of the operation from the object
or element.
I hope this is.
Should be pretty much clear.
Like what is the problem?
What is definition actually allow you to add new operation without changing the existing class how it
is?
What is double dispatch?
Double dispatch mean method which need to be invoked decided by the caller object and the object passed
in the argument.
So I think this I think should be clear with an example itself.
So at what time double dispatch is happening.
This.
This is actually we are doing double dispatch.
First.
This is the caller.
First it will determine which class and if that class has so many visit a particular visit method has
to invoke, then this argument will help which particular method.
Okay.
And single dispatch.
I have already told you that single dispatch is nothing but a normal polymorphism with a simple examples,
right?
So this is the visitor pattern here.
And before going, if you stay till here, then I will tell you like many people get confused with strategy
design pattern.
Because in strategy pattern let's say if you have room you can have let's say single room.
Double room, deluxe room.
And then you can have let's say room strategy.
What they will do is they will do room strategy and they will try to put it like this.
Hey, I can have a single room pricing strategy.
I can have single room maintenance strategy like this I have deluxe room pricing strategy, deluxe room
maintenance strategy, and now whichever strategy I have to, let's say I want to use pricing, single
room pricing.
I can dynamically runtime pass this strategy and I can use it.
No.
Yes, you can do that.
But this is wrong.
See these are all operations.
Strategy pattern is mostly for separating out the algorithm.
Right.
That's why I have cut it at above.
It's not algorithm it's operation.
So strategy pattern separates out the algorithm.
Algorithm is independent of this elements like single room double room.
So algorithm can be like let's say if it is like this uh price calculation algo something, something
like algo maintenance algo one.
maintenance algo to some algorithms which is independent of this.
Now they can decide which algorithm you want to use.
I want to use for maintenance.
I want to use algo maintenance.
One double say that double rooms say that I want to use algo uh.
Maintenance algo two.
So you decide there is a difference between algorithm and operation.
You can't have a strategy for each operation.
Like this strategy is for separating out the algorithm which are independent of this object.
Single room and.
All right.
But here visitor pattern.
We are talking about operations right specifically for each of this element.
Single room.
It's specific operation.
So this is an operation.
And here we have a implementation of that.
Right.
But algorithm you.
I think it should be clear like you got it right.
Algorithm is no nowhere related to this.
I have an algorithm.
Now the element can decide okay I want to use this algorithm.
Maybe it's possible that single room, double room, deluxe room.
All three will use the same algorithm for computation of the pricing.
Right?
It's possible.
So there is a difference in strategy.
And visitor strategy is mostly related with separating out the algorithm.
Visitor is with the problem.
You already got to know what it tries to do is separating out the operations.
Okay guys, I tried to explain with an example and uh, the problem.
I hope it should be pretty clear.
And you should be have a, well, differentiation between visitor and strategy, right?
Don't mix it up.
And if you have any doubt, let me know in the comment section.
Uh, we can discuss more.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- MVC Design Pattern ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
So I have got a message from an engineer that in an LD round the question has been asked is MVC design
pattern.
And that's where he got a little bit not able to answer that.
So today I'm going to cover the MVC design pattern.
But here I would tell you that we have solved so many question like snake and ladder, parking lot,
elevator split wise bookmyshow, etc. in all we have used this MVC right?
But generally I considered MVC as an architecture rather than a design pattern.
That's where I haven't specifically mentioned that this is the design pattern, right?
But still, if an interview interviewer asked you that MVC design pattern or let's say design snake
and ladder using MVC, so don't get confused that hey, we have solved Design Snake and later in LD.
But now what does it mean using MVC?
Okay, so I'll tell you what actually MVC is.
And then we don't have to worry.
Don't worry much about this.
So MVC contains three parts.
First is model.
Second is your view and third is controller.
So model view controller.
That's what MVC stands for.
So all the latest framework like spring boot in Java that follows MVC.
Similarly for Python I think the major framework is Django right.
So that also follows MVC.
So this is very popular for certain reason I will tell you the advantage and disadvantage of it.
But first understand what is it.
Okay.
So now here if you see that how this three Parts connect to each other, and this is generally an architecture
of your application.
How your application should look like.
Okay so here first we have view right.
So here let's make it like this.
You have view then you have controller.
Then you have model.
Okay.
So view interact with controller.
Controller interacts with model.
Through model you can interact with your DB.
And your clients generally interact with your view.
Okay.
So generally this is how your whole application architecture looks like.
So this is generally your front end application.
Front end app.
Right.
So all the front end like button form where user can enter or give command right.
So it can do with the view.
Controller.
So controller what happen is it's a mediator between view and model right.
So what it does it it accept the user request.
Interpreted.
Or you can say that perform certain business logic.
Right.
And then give command to the model.
So view gives commands to the controller that hey I want this data.
Now controller is something which accepts the user request.
Perform certain business logic.
Hey are you there are a lot of business logic like validate and other business logic.
So all this happens at the controller layer right.
And then it gives a command to the model that fetch me this.
Update this right.
So your model now you know that it holds the data part like entities right.
So this is generally your brain.
Actually you can say that the major brain of your this is this all.
So this is generally if you remember that all the questions which I have solved I create let's say car
parking lot, I create a car entity like this is a generally a Pojo class car.
Let's say if you are solving a split wise question expense.
So these are all entities, right?
Which are nothing but a Pojo.
Dumb classes I refer them as dumb classes.
Right.
So they are dumb right here.
View is also considered as a dumb.
It doesn't hold any logic.
This also doesn't hold any logic.
Controller is the one which controls everything.
So it holds all the business logic.
Or you can say that it's a brain of your total application, right?
And whatever you wanted it computes, interpret it and then give the command to the model.
Similarly, whatever the output comes from the model something has to be modified.
Something has to be updated on the output which we get from model.
It does that and ultimately gives to the viewer.
And then what view will do is simply render it to the client.
Doesn't put anything logic here.
So it no logic should be here.
No logic should be here.
So this is the layer.
All the logic should be present.
Okay.
So now No when in an interview, if any questions comes like hey, design snake and ladder using MVC,
what you should do so you should not worry.
We are already following this.
If you see that right, we create entities like.
So this would be our model.
Right.
So model contains your entities or Pojos right.
So here in the snake and ladder what would be the entities like.
Like your board.
Your board class.
Right.
So this is just one example.
Right.
And what does other things model can have is it can also have other logic like which DB to connect to,
which DB to connect to.
There might be couple of DBS right.
And for this Whenever you want to change update this entity.
You might have to connect to a specific DB.
So all those data related logic right is reside in the model.
Then we have controller.
Right.
So controller controls this.
So all business logic that update board.
For each board or insert something in the board.
Right.
And all the logics will be part of controller.
Right.
So all the you can say that the operations which user we are exposing to the users, that user you can
these are the facilities we are providing you.
So that controller provide that interface, right?
So if anything update board functionality we have provided the controls comes over here.
It do perform certain logic right.
And based on that logic it might give a command to the board that update.
Right.
And then ultimately this actually stores the data into the DB.
Right.
So let's say you have this is the entity.
And then we have certain that DB service.
So this actually stores the data in DB right.
For this entity.
But in NLD we generally do not store the data into DB.
So for our LD part the scope is still this entities or this Pojo classes.
This project classes is considered as model and the controller of this entities are known as the controller,
as generally give the name controller only where I put all the business logic right, which control
this entities and ultimately comes is your view right in the view classes?
Generally this is your front end where we have load the form buttons and all.
But here if you see that in the spring boot, I would say that this is place where the the controller
returns like something JSON, right?
You can say that the response, the response of the controller is generally you can consider as a view
because this is ultimately actually been shown to the user.
What is the advantage?
We are getting it.
So I'll tell you that see in many companies big companies you will find this thing happening.
So I will tell you that this is our controller and this is model view is generally front end.
So I'm a back end engineer.
I will tell you mostly how the controller and model.
So this is separate component.
This is let's say component component.
And this is let's say some x y z service.
So all the controller we have a separate repo for the model.
We have a separate repo.
Now generally when we say that what we can do is that in this model we will have all the Pojo classes.
Or you can say that entities classes right.
We can have the logic to which DB to connect to which DB to connect to, right and expose the interface
which controller can use.
So let's say I have expose an intercept, let's say expose this API that slash get slash insert Right.
And this controller has the dependency of this repo.
Right.
And based on this it can invoke that particular interface of the model.
What it will do is now it will know that which DB it connect to and then run the query.
It run the DB query to update the db actually.
So all your DB queries right.
And the connections to the DB logic all connect to the model.
All the let's say your API, Rest APIs Rest API right.
So this is the rest API is the your interface which view or your front end uses it to connect to the
controller.
And all other business logic will reside at the controller.
So controller has the dependency of model right?
So it can invoke it.
Now what is the advantage?
The advantage is that since these are the different components let's say you have to let's say there
is certain change in the model.
So let's say today you are using relational DB.
Tomorrow you change it to some other DB right.
Let's say Cassandra or let's say some other DB like let's say Postgres.
So you might need to change your SQL queries or something right.
So it will only impact model component.
It will not impact your controller.
So controller will still work as it is.
It has to just invoke this get for this entity.
Now all the query and all related changes will happen on this model.
So you only have to test this specific.
So easy to maintain easy to test right.
So we have decoupled components.
So loose coupling.
You can say that loose coupling We have between controller and model.
Generally your model is lightweight.
So testing unit, test casing feet if anything required deployment time.
Everything takes very less time.
Controller is generally heavy.
There are a lot of Rest APIs, a lot of business logic, configuration, caching.
All logic happens here controller.
So testing and all is also takes too much time.
So with this MVC you are decoupled or tight coupling.
You have removed it from your code right.
Model can scale on its own.
Controller can scale on its own.
Similarly the view frontend can scale on its own.
Frontend is not dependent on controller and model.
It can scale on its own.
But there is disadvantage also that you have to manage all three components now, right?
So this is not generally advised to use.
MVC is not advised to use for small application only for mid or big application.
Generally, MVC is used for very small application.
This is not required.
You can have in one repo you can have.
All right.
So maintenance cost is also there as you have three components.
Then you have to manage all three components separately.
So there is some ten maintenance cost will come with it right.
Certain complexity increases okay.
So I think hope it is clear that in an LD round if something is asked MVC, any question using MVC or
directly, they asked MVC design pattern.
It's very easy right?
Just remember this flow.
This is an architecture actually not an exact design pattern.
This is an architecture, remember?
Okay guys thank you.
Any doubt any question.
Let me know.
We can discuss more in the comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Memento Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do memento design pattern in the low level design.
And after this only two design patterns are left.
And mostly we are done with all the design patterns of LED.
Right.
So without wasting any time, let's start the memento design patterns.
And before understanding the UML and the code, we need to understand why this pattern is used and when
you should use okay.
So this is a behavioral pattern.
So this is the pattern category.
So why you should use this pattern.
So in an so this pattern is used.
Or you can say that this pattern is specifically meant to store the object history.
So whenever you want to build the undo functionality then always think about this pattern that can it
be done with this because this pattern is specifically For storing the history of an object.
Okay, so in an interview.
Many times interviewer asked me that, hey Shreyansh, we want to design an application so that we can
take a snapshot of its particular state.
So that's why as many times you can also see that it is also known as snapshot design pattern, because
for a particular application, whenever you want you can take a snapshot and keep it right.
And whenever you required you can revert back or go back or undo to that particular snapshot.
Right.
And also one more good functionality.
It provides it do not expose the object internal implementation.
Right.
I will tell you about this.
What does it mean.
It do not expose the object internal implementation.
I will come back to it.
But this is also which makes it like good design pattern for building the undo capability.
So memento pattern has three major components.
One is originator, second is memento, and the third is caretaker.
Originator is what originator is the object actually for which we want to maintain a history.
Right.
So original is originator.
Is it represent the object for which state need to be saved and restored.
So it represents the object for which I have to save the state.
Then what is the memento?
Memento.
You can say that represent an object which actually holds the state of what?
Of originator.
Right?
So it represents an object which holds the state of the originator.
So whenever we take a particular snapshot or a particular state, save a particular state of the originator.
Right.
So it is stored here.
It holds.
It holds the state of the originator memento.
And then we have a caretaker.
Caretaker is nothing.
But you can say that list of memento.
So we might have to save so many history of this object.
So there can be so many mementos object.
But some someone has to store all of this.
Right.
And maintain those caretaker manage those list of mementos.
So I'll tell you this UML diagram.
So here if you see the originator.
So originator has let's say member variable state.
It can have string integer or any other objects.
But for this demo purpose I have said that let's say there is a state object which has certain properties
like some property.
String.
Integer.
Let's say val Something.
So it let's say considered as a state.
So original originator class has.
Member variable state.
Now it exposed two method.
One method is create memento.
Second method is restore memento.
Now come back to this point.
What I told you that this design pattern do not expose the object internal implementation.
Right?
That's where it is helpful that originator class itself expose this to method.
If anybody from outside of this class want to make sure that, hey, I have to save the state of this
object, they don't want to understand this object properly.
They can simply call create memento.
So there is another method called Restore Memento.
So whenever I get a memento object it knows that okay from this memento object what all things I need
to read so that I can go back to the previous state.
So create memento and read memento.
Logic holds in the originator and it has the logic what to save in memento and what to read from memento.
Depend upon what is required to maintain or save the state of this object.
Okay, so memento, we can have all the variables which are required to save a state of a originator,
right?
Whether we can have direct 1 to 1 member variables which are there in the originator.
Or we can have specify some fields which originator know how to fill those up, because it is going
to create an object of it.
So it knows that what all values I need to add.
Okay, so but for in this example I have just showed that they both have 1 to 1 like it has a state.
It has also state so that whenever it create a memento it just put its straight object values into this
state.
So, originator, you know the purpose.
Memento.
You know the purpose.
And then the caretaker.
Caretaker.
What is this?
It has a list of memento maintains a history, so it exposes two methods.
One method is add memento.
So there can be we we might take multiple.
We might have take multiple snapshot or save multiple state of this originator.
So there can be many mementos.
So we have a history list of memento.
And if we want to add more it expose method.
Give me the memento I will add it into this list.
And the second is undo method.
So what it does is from this list we can put a logic that hey, take out the last memento from this
list and return it and remove that memento from this list.
So now let's see an example.
It will clarify you more right.
So here I have taken a configuration.
So I have taken a configuration example.
So you know that right in you might be working and you have lot of configurations right.
And it is possible that we might have to revert back.
There is a issue uh with the current configuration.
And we might have to roll back to a previous one.
Right.
So I'm just taking that example.
Let's say I have a configuration and this is a originator class.
It has certain member variable height and width.
Okay.
So this is just a constructor to have that.
This is a setter methods.
So originator has two method one create memento second restore memento.
So we will come to this method uh later.
But let's see first memento class then I have created a configuration memento.
So configuration memento also has the same variable height width.
Or you can choose based upon your requirement in the interview that what exactly is required to save
the state.
Okay.
So here height and width is there.
This is the constructor to set this and a getter method okay.
So now here in the originator create memento.
It knows it is actually the one which is creating a memento.
So it is creating an object of this memento.
It is creating an object of this.
And it is filling the memento object, initializing the memento object like what values.
So it is initializing with height and width.
This height and width will get initialized to this one.
So that's why I told you, right?
Originator do not expose the implementation how to save this state.
It knows that what is required for me?
What else, what else, what all things I need to save my state if it only want okay, I only want to
store height.
I don't want width so it will only save this.
Okay.
So from the outer it they just need to call create and what it has to store that this class will decide.
So here it is creating an object and passing both this object it will create and this will get initialized
and it will return the object.
Similarly in the restore method it will get an object which from which it has to restore, and it will
update its data height and width.
It updates its current state with whatever the past saved.
Memento.
Okay.
And here is the caretaker class.
So in the caretaker class I am maintaining the history of the memento.
As I mentioned, it maintains the history of the memento.
So whenever the ad memento comes.
So this is the first method is exposed.
Whenever the memento comes, it will just add into the list.
And the second method is undo.
So in the undo method, generally the functionality of the caretaker is take out the last state, because
undo.
If you have multiple saves, then when you do undo it, just move like to the last, then this, then
this like right.
So that's where it does.
So in the undo it, take out the last index right.
Take out the memento out of this, remove it and just send it okay.
So just send this memento.
So now let's see the client functionality here.
What.
So this client can be like which might be using this driver force.
So here, if you see that I am creating an object of the originator.
So this is the originator for which we need to save the state of an right.
This for this object we need to save the state.
So I am creating an object of an originator.
And I am initially setting height as five.
Width is ten.
So this is the initial state.
Now I am saving it.
So originator dot create momentum.
So what it will do originator it goes.
It will create momentum.
It will create a new object of the momentum.
Put a height and width and return.
Okay so I got a snapshot.
This is the first object.
Now I am calling a caretaker object and adding this memento in the list.
So now this is the history.
This is the history right?
This one is the history list of memento.
So I have created this object.
Snapshot one.
Snapshot one which has height five and width ten.
This value generally it has.
Right.
I added it to the history.
So it added to the history.
Now the originator is changing its state.
Now the originator has changed its state to seven and 12.
So I've changed this value.
Earlier it was 510.
Now it has changed to 712.
Now I am saving it again.
So I am saying that hey originator, create the memento.
So originator will go ahead and create a memento and return it.
Now when it return it I am again saving it to the.
I am giving it to the caretaker and telling it hey, add this snapshot also so it adding snapshot to
Which has seven and 12 value.
Okay, now originator is changing again.
Its state originator is now nine and 14.
Now I see that.
Hey, something went wrong.
I need to restore.
Right?
So what I am saying is that I am going to the caretaker.
Hey, caretaker.
Undo.
Now what?
This undo will do.
Undo will take out the last memento object from the history and return it.
So it will return this and remove this from this.
You can say that the list and return this objects with 712.
So I got this object memento object this one.
And now I am asking the originator that hey restore from this memento.
So now the originator object which has the value 914 now it Restored from it.
Now it will change its value to seven and 12.
So it will change its value to seven and 12.
And if you print it, it will print seven.
Height and width 12.
This is the same client.
And if we run it it should be like what should be printing instead of 914.
We have already done restore.
So it is printing the last one seven, 12 seven, 12.
Right.
So this is very simple.
You can say the design pattern but very very effective when interviewer is asking you to maintain a
history of a particular object so that you can develop the undo functionality.
Okay.
I hope this is clear with an example, but do practice it with your own example, right.
And it will help you to get clarify more.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Template Method Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And in the low level design today we are going to see template method pattern.
So I'm taking it right.
So only one pattern would be left after this which is interpreter pattern okay.
So let's start with our latest topic which is template method design pattern.
So here the category which this pattern belongs to is the behavioral.
And you need to understand why it's required and when to use.
And before I start I will tell you one point that we use this pattern a lot.
And if you are working you might not know that you are using this pattern.
But this is very frequently used pattern in the industry.
Okay.
So let's read this and then I will tell you that how do you identify that I have to use this pattern
when you want all classes to follow the specific steps to process the task, but also you need to provide
the flexibility that each class can have their own logic in that specific steps.
What does that mean?
Let's take an example.
Understand with an example.
Let's.
Let me take an a payments uh example.
So you know that there are two, uh, type of payments.
One is you when you are making payments to your friend.
Right.
So let's say it is paid to friend flow.
And there is another is when you purchase something online.
Right.
So when you purchase something online okay.
So this is let's say pay to merchant flow.
So let's say in the payment there are two flows when you pay to your friend.
When you pay to a merchant.
Now, no matter whether you are paying to your friend or whether you are paying to a merchant, you
want all the flows to follow a particular steps.
So Payment steps which you want to follow is that say validate, validate request after second they
will debit the money.
Third should be calculate.
Let's say I'm just taking an example.
Calculate fees for the platform.
And the fourth is credit money.
Okay.
So validate if your request whatever it is request is correct or not.
After yes everything is right then debit the money from this user.
Charge certain fee.
The platform should charge certain fee.
That's how they will earn and then credit the money to the receiver.
Either your friend or either to the merchant.
So no matter whether you are paying to a friend or whether you are paying to the merchant, what you
want is you want these flows to follow this specific steps in an order.
Now how you will do it generally let's say that.
So now let's say that I have this payment interface payment, which is an interface.
And let's say you have send money method.
Right.
So here payment I would say that let's say this is the method name.
Task name is send money.
So now your one child would be which one pay two friend.
This would be paid to send flow.
Another child would be.
Pay to merchant flow.
Now they have to override this.
Send money.
Right?
So they will override this.
Send money and they provide their own implementation.
It will also override this.
Send money and provide its implementation.
Now we want that okay.
For this send money.
All this classes should follow this specific steps validate, then debit, then calculate fees and then
credit money.
So it can do first validate and then debit and then compute fees and then credit.
But it is possible that this might not follow this.
It will do validate.
It will do.
First let's say credit and then do debit and then compute fees.
Who knows.
Right.
So but what I'm trying to say is that our requirement is when you want all classes to follow the specific
steps to process the task.
Right.
Then first, this is your first hint when you want all classes to follow a specific step to process
the task.
So what is the task here is send money.
I want to send the money, but I want all classes here.
All the child classes of this payment, no matter if any future, any more flows comes.
If anybody is doing send money, they need to process a specific steps.
What step this is steps right.
So that is the first hint.
Second hint is that I also need to provide the flexibility that each class can have their own specific
logic and specific step.
So validate request might be pay to friend flow might be doing validation certain differently.
This might be doing certain differently.
Calculate fees.
It do not charge any fees 0% fees.
So this person is sending ₹100.
This person is receiving ₹100.
But pay to merchant is charging let's say 2% fees.
If person is buying ₹100 thing merchant is getting only ₹98 to rupees.
Your payment platform get earns.
So what I'm trying to say is that each flow can have different logic for this step.
Okay, so you got it.
How you will identify whether you have to use template pattern.
When all classes write all child classes, you want them to follow a specific step to process the task,
and also flexibility that each class can have their own logic in that specific steps.
Because here if you see that send money right, they are overriding it.
Right.
And they will provide the send money capability.
But it might be possible that it might not follow the specific steps.
So they are following some sequence.
They are following some sequence.
But who will guarantee that they are following the same sequence?
That's where the template method design pattern comes into the picture.
So now see this how you can do that.
The same example, but I have taken it now an abstract class the payment flow I have created an abstract
and the send money right here in the send money.
Now I can create it as a template method.
How I can create it as a template method.
So here I can provide the steps which need to be followed.
So let's say that first step is validate request right.
So this is a one step.
So I can create one abstract method for this one.
Validate request.
Now all child classes can override this and provide the functionality whatever they like right.
Second step I want debit amount.
And I have created this abstract method because this is an abstract class right.
You can have you can create abstract methods also.
And you can provide a method with the functionality also.
Okay.
So the template method is the one where we can provide the functionality.
And it also defines the order of steps to execute the task.
So I am defining the order.
First you have to do validate.
So here is the validate abstract method.
Second is debit amount.
So here is the your abstract method.
Third, you have to do calculate the fees.
Here is the abstract method.
And this fourth one is the credit amount.
Here is the abstract method.
Now all child classes like pay to friend flow pay to merchant flow right.
All the child classes can override this one because they are child of this, right?
They have to provide the implementation of this.
Now they can provide their own implementation.
They can validate it.
Validate logic for a specific to pay to friend debit amount.
Logic is specific to pay to friend calculate fee.
I am not charging anything.
Credit amount.
Credit the full amount.
Similarly pay to merchant have their own logic.
Now in this method they might charge 2% fees.
Credit logic is remaining amount only credit debit minus fees and then only it would be credited.
So what I'm trying to say is that here this abstract methods each child classes can provide their own
implementation, whatever they want and if there is any common.
We can create it here and both can use it.
But this template method here, if you see that it is providing a surety that this send money task like
and I have created final that no child class can override it.
So they have to follow this order.
They can't provide at the rate override send money method.
No.
Why?
Because I have created it final.
So when I have created it final, no child classes now can override it.
So this is the only method which would be available in the parent, right?
No child class can override it.
They can just use this as it is.
Okay.
And validate request.
So whatever the object it will call the specific object whether paid to friend or pay to merchant.
So now let's say when I'm creating let's say payment
My object equals to new.
I am paying to a friend.
Let's say pay two friend.
So I am creating this object.
Pay to friend.
Object.
Right now I am calling obj dot send money.
Now I am calling obj.
OBJ object dot send money.
So now the send money here.
If you see I haven't overrided it.
So it will check into this parent one.
Yes send money is there.
Now it will follow this okay.
First one is validate request.
Now validate request.
The first priority would be given to here.
Here it has provided the implementation.
So this validate request will run.
Now the second debit money it will run this calculate fee.
It will run this.
So now here if you see that I have provided a ordering of this specific task right.
So this task you can call it as a now template method.
Right.
That's why the name template method.
So this method is generally providing a template for this operation which I'm trying to perform.
So this is the template was validate debit fees calculation and then credit.
Now for each this step they can provide their specific implementation.
So now if you read the definition again when you want all class to follow the specific step to process
the task and also provide the flexibility that each class can have their own logic in that specific
step, then only you go for it and that's how you will able to do it.
Understood.
This is very, very simple.
It is nothing.
But it's a very basic we know already know that abstract class can have the concrete method and also
the abstract method.
But it's only the way of thinking that yes, we can use it in such a way.
Right?
We can make it final so that no child classes can override it, and we can provide the steps.
Like what?
All methods it has to be followed and all those methods only I will create abstract.
So now they can provide their own implementation.
Now anybody client is calling it right.
They can call this specific template method or specific task.
Then we can provide a guarantee that this steps will be only followed with their specific logic.
Okay.
Again I tell you that this is very frequently used in the industry.
And the example which I have taken, you can see that it's a kind of a real world example.
I can tell you this is how actually been used in real world.
So this is a real world example.
You can say that okay guys.
Thank you.
If you have any doubt we can discuss more.
And only one design pattern left in the LD.
And I will cover that soon.
See you.
Bye.

--- Interpreter Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And in LD today we are going to do the last design pattern which is interpreted design pattern okay.
So let's start it without wasting any time.
This design pattern belongs to which pattern category behavioral pattern it belongs to behavioral pattern
okay.
So now let's understand first what does interpreter pattern means.
Consider this a hand sign.
What do you interpret out of it.
So either you can interpret it as a stop or somebody saying hi to you.
Or it might be the notion of number five.
Or you can say that it might be like a raising and hand raising a hand.
So this sign can be interpreted in different ways.
So it depends upon context in what context We are providing or what is the context then based on that
context, we can say that, hey, it means a stop.
For example, context.
I give you that it's a traffic signal or something, then stop sign there might be like stop somewhere.
So what I'm trying to say is that interpreter means the way you interpret the expression, the way you
understand any particular language.
Right.
So interpreter design pattern is a way through which you can understand any particular language.
Right okay.
So what are the components involved in it.
Abstract expression.
So now when.
So interpreter pattern is specifically for understanding the expression.
So expression could be let's say a plus b.
This is an expression right.
So any expression you can, uh, interpret based upon the context which will be provided.
Right.
So this is also considered as an expression.
Right.
So into C into D this is also an expression right.
So interpret design pattern can be used to understand this expression.
Or you can say that to compute this expression but based on a particular context we will provide to
it.
Right.
What it understand with this.
So we have an abstract expression.
An abstract expression has two things terminal expression and non-terminal expression.
So here if you see that these are terminal expression means you cannot further divide it.
But this A plus B this is a non-terminal expression.
This can further be divided into a.
And this can be divided into b.
And this is like plus do the plus of it Okay.
So abstract expression.
So what are the components involved.
So components involve is one is abstract expression and another is context.
Abstract expression can be have a terminal or non-terminal.
Okay.
So we will see an example and you will get fully clarified with it.
This is the UML diagram of it right.
So here if you see that we have an interface abstract expression there we have a method called interpret.
And we pass the context to it.
I told you right what we are in the interpret design pattern.
We have to interpret an expression using a context.
Right.
So abstract expression has one method interpreted and it receive one context.
Now there are two type of abstract expression can be terminal expression.
Right.
And the same method it has to implement non-terminal expression and the same method uh it has to implement.
And then there is a client.
The client has access to the context right.
And it has to pass this context to this abstract expression while calling the interpret.
Okay.
So we'll see an example I am showing you an example where let's say that I want to do a into b.
This is one expression.
Now what should be the output.
What you will interpret out of it a into B.
What some like should I considered a as one or a as two, a as ten or a as something I would considered
as something else point five.
So what I would consider that that context will tell.
But this is one expression which we have to pass to the interpreter.
And we will also pass the context and based on the context interpreter should interpret it.
Okay.
So now here we say that let's see one by one component which we have in the UML right.
First is abstract expression.
So I have created one interface I created one here interface abstract expression and the abstract method
like interpret context okay.
Then there is one number terminal expression.
So this is a terminal expression which implement this abstract expression.
So this is is a relationship okay.
So I am getting one string value and using this constructor to assign this string value right.
So this is a method which it has to implement.
So whatever the context it will get for this string value, it will using that context to get the data
for it.
Hey context, this is the data I am getting.
Tell me what I have to do with it.
Now context will give you give it right what it interpret.
This is a terminal I am doing now in a non terminal expression I have given the name multiply non-terminal
expression.
So a into b we wanted to do right.
So this full is a non-terminal.
This individual is a terminal.
So for a in the context here if you see the context in the context I created a map map of what A considered
a as two BS four.
So map is this.
So now when this particular A goes to the terminal expression right.
So for this a context dot get a.
So it will get two.
So it will return two from here.
So when it get b so context dot get b so b would be four.
It will return four out of this okay.
Now in the multiply nonterminal expression what it will do is we have left expression and right expression
right left expression and right expression.
So in this multiplication we have left expression right expression right.
So this is just a constructor to assign the left and right.
And in the it's interpret method we have to call the left expression.
Whatever the left expression would be we have to call its interpret method and whatever the right expression
would be, we have to call it it's interpret method and we have to multiply it.
Right.
So maybe if left expression is further a non-terminal expression, you can say that it will kind of
recursion.
Then it will again call the multiply non-terminal right.
Might be so.
But what I am trying to say here is in the non-terminal expression right.
We are again calling this like here.
The interpret method.
Right.
And either it will go ahead and call the terminal.
Or again go and call non-terminal depending upon the expression.
But for this a into B so left is your non-terminal and right is also non-terminal.
We have provided.
Okay.
So here and if you see the client now here, if you see in the client what I am doing in the client,
I am first setting the context.
So I created a context object.
I created the context object.
Now in the map I have put this two values a I have assigned two and b I have assigned four in the map.
Right.
These are the string.
Now I am trying to interpret this expression.
So what I am doing is new multiple nonterminal expression.
So I am creating this object its object.
Now this object it accept two expression left and right right.
So I am giving this left.
This is my left.
And here it is right right.
So in the left what I have provided in the left expression I have provided number terminal expression.
Right.
So it's a number terminal expression I provided.
And what is the string value.
I have provided here a in the right expression what I have provided again a number terminal expression.
And what is the string value.
I have provided in the constructor b okay.
And whatever the expression I have called the interpret and pass the context.
Now what will happen is this expression dot interpret.
So what it will call is multiply non-terminal context.
It will call this method right.
This two are already set with this number terminal and with a number terminal with value b okay.
And I have called the interpret and passed the context.
So here what I am doing is I am calling the left expression dot interpret and passing forward the context
into right expression dot interpret this one.
So left expression was number terminal right.
And uh so it was a.
So for a it will return two.
So two into for right expression was also your number one right.
And b so it will call this uh interpret method with the value b.
And for b it will return four.
So two into four.
Ultimately this will return your eight.
So you got it.
So we can even solve harder expressions also is same.
So let's say I want to solve a into b plus c into D right.
So one way is that here in the abstract expression I have a terminal expression number.
Like all these are terminal.
Then I have one.
Multiply expression right.
So which has left and right.
And ultimately it multiplies those.
Then I created some expression which again has left right and actually do.
Plus here if you see that first in the sum.
So A into b plus c into D we want to do this.
So first we have to do some this plus.
So some of some of what two multiplication.
So this is the first multiply non-terminal expression.
This is the second non-terminal expression right.
And for each multiple.
I have to tell that this is the terminal number terminal there.
So left expression for multiple are multiply non terminal expression is first number terminal a then
the second b.
For the second multiply non-terminal expression I have to provide.
This is again a number terminal expression.
And this is also number terminal expression.
But you can consider it like anything the way your expression would be.
Right.
So we have created this expression.
Now we are wanted to interpret this expression.
So we are calling hey interpret this expression and pass the context and the context map.
I have put a considered A as two, B as four CS and DS 16.
Right.
And now I am passing this expression.
I wanted to interpret it and do the context.
So first expression goes to the sum.
So it will goes to the sum.
It will try to do that expression plus.
Right.
And it's right.
So left one is right.
Multiply one.
So it will call the multiply this one.
It will call the multiply with this two number terminal and a and b number terminal b.
So here we have number terminal with a number terminal with b right.
So it's left expression will call number terminal with a.
So it will return two two into number terminal b.
So b is your four.
So it will return eight.
So it's left would get eight I think you got right the crux how it is working.
So we are computing the expression or interpreting the expression based on the context.
You can further optimize it by let's say that I have further optimized it.
Instead of creating multiply sum subtract different different classes, I have created one class called
binary terminal expression left and right expression, and also receiving the operator right.
And in the constructor I will receive this and in the interpreter based upon the switch operator.
If you are doing plus, do this.
If you are doing multiply, run this.
Otherwise return zero.
Let's say I am supporting only two.
Now here in here this is the same context which I built up.
Now I am creating binary terminal expression.
Right?
non-terminal expression.
I am passing first.
Again a non-terminal expression.
And inside non-terminal expression what I am passing terminal expression A, terminal expression B and
the operator n2.
We have to multiply this.
These three things we pass right.
And again we have pass.
Uh second is again one more terminal expression c d and n2.
Right.
And ultimately we have passed plus to this one right.
So first this will get resolved.
Then this will get resolved.
Then ultimately all get resolved.
Okay guys.
With that overall design patterns are finished in the LD and we will do lot of questions of it.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- LLD of Payment Gateway ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the low level design of payment gateway.
So today in this one I will try to show you uh the requirement clarification of the payment gateway
sequencing diagram, the class diagram and also the coding part.
Right.
I will also I will also show you the code okay.
So this is a very very important interview question.
But the scope is too big.
So the very important part is to define the scope right.
So for example so you everybody already know right.
What is payment gateway.
So if just in if you don't know very short payment gateway act as a mediator between the user and financial
institution and helps to transfer the money.
That's all okay.
So when an interview you get this question.
You the very first part you have to do is define the scope.
So there are let's say there are many use cases.
So this two cases I have listed down here to show that how the scope increases.
So first is peer to peer when user one is making a payment to user two.
Another is peer to merchant.
When you goes to any e-commerce site, purchase something and do a checkout, and while doing a checkout
you make a payment.
Select a particular payment gateway.
So that is peer to merchant.
So now when let's say that if you don't define a scope and you also included this peer to merchant,
then you also have to take care of refund processing multi-tenancy, which is very, very big topic
in itself.
Okay.
So for today let's define the scope that okay we are going to focus on peer to peer okay.
So with that being said we have to first clarify the requirement.
So let's say that if I am getting this question and what things I want to clarify is that let's say
that I open an app.
So I'm thinking that what user can do user can be added, a new user can be added, updated or deleted.
Right.
So this operation can be done.
Second thing is let's say if user is already present into a system, it can add more instruments or
it can update an instrument or it can remove an instrument itself.
So when I say an instrument, instrument is either your bank card through which you can fund a transaction
or in which you will receive the payment.
Okay.
So you know, right in your payment, let's say me shreyansh in the wallet I can add multiple instrument.
My bank one, bank two, my card one.
So I have two banks and one card.
Now I have three instruments present.
Now if I want to make a payment to anybody else.
Some user two I can choose like okay, this ₹100 I want to fund from which particular instrument.
So okay, so when I say an instrument now you know that it's either your like either bank card balance.
So what through which you can do fund or in which you can get or receive money.
What all things we can do, we can what we can do is we can make a payment user one to user two payment
we can do.
And what all things when you do from user one to user two, what are the things included?
One thing is searching of a user.
Let's say that user one wants to make a payments to user two.
So let's say I'm searching user two either through email ID or phone number.
Right.
So I need a search functionality.
And after that uh, I need to select the amount.
Um, like, um, I want to transfer ₹100, ₹10 award.
And the funding instrument that I told you.
Like from which instrument?
I have to fund this amount.
Right.
And what ultimately we have to do is we have to pass this information to processor.
As I told you, that payment gateway is a mediator.
Okay.
So it passes the information to financial institution through processor.
So payment gateway interact with processor.
Processor further interact with the card network which further interact with the banks and all financial
institution.
So for payment gateway it interact with the processor.
So all this your bank information the payment gateway pass it to the processor okay.
So when we open an app uh this all things can be done.
What else.
It is possible in the scope notification whether you add, update or delete something user or instrument.
A notification should be received, so notification should be built out.
Okay.
Another things which I can think of is user should be able to see the transaction history.
So if I make a ten payments and later on when I want to see, I should be able to see my transaction
history okay.
So this is the first step which through which I wanted to clarify my requirements, uh, from the with
the interviewer and also want to understand the flow better also.
Okay.
Now for the peer to peer at least I have a little understanding that, okay.
What all things can be done in an app.
Now using this, uh, basic requirement, what I did second part is I tried to find out the main entities
involved in the above flow.
So the main entity, I mean to say the main objects, so there can be more objects, but that when we
slowly build out we will get to know.
But at least main main men should not should get uncovered by that time now.
So first main is user can be added.
So definitely first is user second.
Um we talked about instrument can be added deleted.
So definitely instrument is one entity we have to create.
Another is make payment.
So payment is nothing but a transaction.
You are doing one transaction.
So transaction transaction history I'm thinking can be a one entity notifications.
So notification we have to build out like so notification and processor.
So these are the main entities which we can think of from the above requirement gathering.
So till now we are good right.
So this is just a start.
Like how this big question we can slowly start from very basics okay.
So now to further understand the dependencies between each of this entity I want I created a sequence
diagram for one happy flow.
Let's say user making a payment from user one to user two.
So what is the flow?
So just to understand like how they are interrelated with each other.
So what I did is I tried to create one sequence diagram.
So with this sequence diagram it will help you to identify the dependency between these objects.
Which object is dependent on other.
Okay so user.
So I think that I created one user service which takes care of user creation addition deletion.
There is something called instrument bank card add.
So I call it as an instrument service which takes care of creation of banks, cards and all.
Then we have transaction transaction history.
So I created one transaction service which I think can handle all the transaction related, uh, operations
in transaction history and everything, so this should take care of it.
Then we have processor and notification.
So we have a processor and we have a notification service.
Now how they are interacting with each other this main entities.
So now let's say from the app I want to make user one makes payments to user two.
So first user one should exist into the system.
So I'm adding add user right.
So first I am adding a first user one.
So what it will do is user service will create the user create one user id and return.
Then I'm creating user two.
I'm calling add user API might be.
So it will create some user two.
So it will create user two id and return.
So now two users got created into the system.
So now so currently app is only interacting with user service.
Now I want to add instrument to this users.
So I am calling from the app.
I am calling ad bank, let's say which is called by user one, right.
And it goes to the instrument service.
So what it will do is it will create let's say bank by user one.
Right.
So it will associate this bank to this user.
Then I am calling again ad bank and which is called by what user two.
So it will create another bank but it will associate it with user two.
So I am creating another bank and it will associate it with user two.
Okay.
So we have created an instruments also for this uh two users.
Now I want to make a payment.
Now let's say that user one wants to make a payments to user two of ₹10.
What all the sequence can happen.
So first let's say user one comes to an app.
It will first search get user details, maybe through email ID, email ID or phone number.
It will try to find out the user two details.
So now let's say that it able to find the user two through email ID okay.
Once it is able to find out a user two ID, what it will do is what user one has to do is that whatever
the amount it has to transfer, it has to select from which instrument may be.
Currently we have added only one, but there could be more.
So it is calling.
Instrument service and getting the.
All the instruments.
So now what would happen is while making a payment we will show to the user that hey you have bank one,
bank two.
This card one card two.
Now user can select hey fund this through this bank two.
So that's why.
So this second part is like user should be able to fetch the instrument so that it can select from which
it want to fund the transaction.
And then third one is make payment.
It will invoke the make payment.
And it will goes to the transaction service.
Right.
So transaction service will get right.
Send it to the sender.
Credit to this receiver ID right.
Like this is user one.
Or instead of sender receiver let's say that debit user one.
Credit user two.
It will also get amount right.
And also it will get debit instrument ID right.
But one thing is you never select credit like you only select that.
Hey I want to transfer ₹10 right.
And I will, I will I will make a payment through this instrument let's say bank and but you never select
that.
Hey for user to transfer here from the payment gateway?
No.
So what generally happen is transaction when it received to the transaction service it what it will
do is it will call.
Instrument service.
Right.
So it will see that hey user two is what is the default instrument present.
So sometime in the payment gateway you can set preferred instrument right.
I said hey if anybody is transferring money to me this is my preferred instrument.
Uh, do a withdrawal in this one okay.
So transaction service, what it can do is it can call instrument service.
It can call instrument service and see that okay.
In which one I have to deposit.
Like I have to do credit into which which instrument ID right.
So what it will do is it will take the user to where it has to receive the money.
Now it will check here.
What is the preferred instrument set by this user?
If preferred is not set.
It will check what is the default right or if default is not there sometime.
What happened is that depending upon, uh, the logic, it will say that hey, what is the latest instrument
you added?
And it will pick one or randomly it will pick any one, any instrument.
Okay.
So this all instruments comes into the, uh to the transaction service.
So transaction service definitely need to call instrument service to fetch the instrument detail because
it need to pass to the processor because it need to pass this information to processor.
Processor need let's say if it is a bank processor need ifSc code, bank account number, and rest of
the details it needed to process the transaction right?
With just ID it is not possible.
So when transaction service is getting an ID and this credit to this instruction ID debit from this
instruction ID what it will do is it will call this instrument service fetch the details like ifSc and
all for the particular instrument and then process it to a forward it to a processor.
Now processor processor will take it forward to a network and decide whether it is success or failure.
We will store the transaction, we will create the transaction, whether it's a success or failure or
whatever.
Right.
And ultimately we will send the notification.
We will send the notification to the user.
Okay.
So this is my understanding of the very, very simple when a user do a payment okay.
See sometimes interviewer can ask you a follow up question that hey here in this sequence diagram.
You are saying that transaction service is calling processor.
It's kind of a real time, right?
But you know that in the real world the bank can take up to 3 to 5 days.
So sometimes you happen is you your money has been debited but credit doesn't happen.
It might take a couple of hours or maybe one day, two day or anything.
But Bank says that, hey, we take 3 to 5 days, so it is possible, right?
So these things can be enhanced.
So this is just like we for the interview purpose.
We are saying that transaction service is calling processor real time but we can enhance it.
If interviewer put this question that we can make use of async operation.
So we will invoke the processor just to validate.
Validate what?
Hey, user one has sufficient money to fund this transaction.
So what will happen is the user one is chosen, right?
Hey, this is the debit from I have to do.
So we will pass this to processor.
And this can be real time that hey this user has balance or not.
If user has a balance, reserve some balance to it okay.
And also we can think that user two where the disbursement has to go that is valid or not.
Is it blocked or is it like uh like uh like closed.
Uh disbursement is not possible.
So those kind of validation can be done real time.
If this two are okay then we can do is we can make an async operation to a processor.
And we can say that, hey, debit from user one credit to user two.
Currently it's in pending state okay.
Now what would happen is that, uh, maybe after couple of hours or whenever, like one day.
Two day.
Processor.
Come back.
Right.
Processor, come back and call the transaction service that.
Hey, this is an update.
And that time we will use that and update transaction either success or failure.
Right.
When the processor comes back we can update whether it's a success or denied whatever the reason is.
Okay, so this is just a follow up question that if interviewer put a follow up question, that why
we have to wait on a real time if what if it takes time.
So then you can tell this part async operation that we will do validation from processor in real time.
And after that, once processor validated right then we will make an async call.
And then we will put the transition into pending and after uh like once the processor processes it and
get the response, we will change it to success or failure.
Okay, so with this sequence diagram now we can easily make a class diagram.
So I will show you the class diagram.
And also in parallel I will also show you the coding.
Okay let's see one by one.
Okay.
So let's start with the user first okay.
So first is I created a user entity.
Okay.
So this is our user entity.
So user entity I have put that it has user ID name email.
You can add more like a user phone number or something if you want.
But I have kept this three and the getter and setter.
So this is the respective.
User entity.
So user ID name, email and the getter and setter.
Okay, now there is something called user service.
This one.
So now what this user service do is that there can be many users in a system.
So it maintains a list of users.
So see here in the NLD we don't have DB.
We have to do everything in memory.
So currently so user service is taking this responsibility that if there are more than one user it is
maintaining the list here.
Right.
So it will add user.
It will add user and it will also fetch user get user and it will update this list.
So I'll show you the respective user service.
So here in the user service I have made one static list of user.
Now it has two operation, one is ad user, another is get user.
So see in the ad user I am getting the user.
Do you know write already do what it is used for.
So let me tell you once.
So this is the request comes from outside.
This is your application.
This is your ultimately DB values let's say user.
So here in the DB you have something called let's say user ID email right.
And when the request is coming it's coming generally as a like uh so what generally happen is it comes
in like a user which your client understands.
Right.
They don't.
So this your DB value should never go out okay.
So everything comes like user do.
So user do is nothing but a Pojo which mostly has similar fields like user id.
I am calling it as let's say uuid email.
I am calling it as a mail, so you can say that it's just a mapping.
But what it helps is that this is your actually all client understand.
So even in future you change certain your column name or certain this one your all the client.
So maybe let's say you are 100 clients so those clients will not get impacted.
Okay.
So user is something you can say that which ultimately your client understands right.
And it also helps that uh your DB column names and generally uh which is information which is you can
say that very, very specific to your you can map it to the user, do what and only tell what client
want to know.
Okay.
So here coming back to this one coding.
Add user.
So in the add user I am getting a user.
Do so here from this user.
Do I am creating a user?
So I created a user.
Now I am creating one user id randomly I'm generating some id, I'm adding it to the list.
I'm adding it to the list right.
And ultimately I am sending again back the user.
Right.
So it again send back the user.
And then another method I have is get user.
So get user is like you get a user ID.
Now from this list you just filter out a specific user, convert it to a user do and return it.
Okay.
So this is clear.
This is clear right.
So and this user service here if you see it has it has a relationship with the user entity.
Now there is something called user controller.
So user controller is nothing.
But you can say that the front facing for this user service where it will just like add user, get user
at expose.
You can say that the API's that outside they can everybody can call this one right.
So it's a controller which exposes the APIs.
Generally you can say that right.
And ultimately this controller just pass the information to service and the service will now take care
of it.
It will do have a business logic service add user.
It will do certain validation and all.
Then ultimately it will create it and insert into to the list.
Okay.
So this three is okay right?
User do have also showed you that it is the same kind of ID first name mail.
So here in the user entity I'm calling it user ID name email Okay.
So this is what my all client understands.
Okay.
So now user is fine.
And you know that in the payment gateway I told you that this app has to interact with this user service.
So payment gateway has has a dependency on this user controller.
It has a dependency on this user controller okay.
So user controller is fine.
Now let's move to here instrument controller.
Right.
This is very very important.
So let's do from here.
Okay so I told you that instrument can be bank can be card in future.
It can be let's say balance or it can be many other things.
Right.
It keep on adding.
We don't know how many instruments are possible today.
right?
So it should be easily extensible.
So here what I have done is I have created an instrument class.
I have created an abstract class.
So generally no matter if any new instrument gets added so it has instrument ID it belongs to which
user.
So here I do not have full user only user ID for mapping.
So this instrument is belongs to which user.
So I have a user ID instrument type whether it's a bank.
So here instrument type is an enum.
Instrument type is an enum.
Whether it's a bank card or in future you can add it also like a balance.
So you can add it like what is this instrument type.
Okay.
Now these are the common.
So I have created like is the relationship.
So bank I have created one bank instrument child class card instrument as a child class.
So it will hold information specific to bank only.
This class will hold information specific to card only.
So for bank I need bank account number ifSc code.
But let's say for card I need card number CVC number.
Or maybe let's say expiry date or more.
So you can add it here.
Okay.
So this way if in future if you are adding balance it's specific fields.
You can add it here.
Okay.
So this is the first and I'll show you the entity part.
Now let's go to instrument.
So first is here instrument.
So here this three are common instrument ID user id instrument type.
Instrument type is currently bank and card.
Now this instrument has two bank instrument card instrument bank instrument I have put only two bank
account number ifSc.
You can add more if required.
Card instrument.
I have put only two card number and CVV number.
You can add getters and setters also.
Okay, so till here we are clear.
What else?
Now I told you that one user, one user can have multiple instruments.
I can have bank one bank two bank three card one card two.
I can have as much as instrument I want.
So I created one instrument service.
Right.
So I have one instrument service.
And in that one I created one map for this user.
What are the list of instruments?
Since we don't have DB we have to handle in memory.
So instrument service is taking care of doing this one.
So it's a static right?
So that no matter how many objects created or only a single, it belongs to a class.
So it is keeping this mapping.
User ID.
This user has list of instruments.
Okay.
And also here I have also created as a child bank service.
Card service.
Why?
See, I want a single responsibility in a solid principle.
We have something called single responsibility.
So now let's say that user wants to add an instrument.
There are so many.
Bank specific logic can be present into an instrument.
Like if user want to add a card, there can be so many card specific logic validation can be present.
So we can't have just one common method for adding a bank or adding a card.
So what I did is that the instrument service I created an abstract class.
I make one bank service card service and in future if there are more instruments we can add it.
So this add instrument, get instrument.
This specific classes are implementing now add instrument.
Now bank can have a specific logic to create bank.
Now get instrument bank specific logic to fetch the instrument there.
I'm telling you there this is where mostly I'm what?
I would say that things get complicated, right?
In a single if in a single method, you are trying to handle all the instruments, like it's gonna break
your solid principle.
And if there is a chance that interviewer will catch you there.
So here we have to adhere to the single responsibility part.
We have to divide this instrument service to bank service card service.
And the add instrument is like they can now they do a very specific logic for them.
Similarly for get instrument they can do a very specific logic to them.
Okay.
So this one I can show you here.
So here we have instrument service.
So instrument service.
As I told you it's an abstract class.
It has this static I have kept it where it is user versus list of instrument.
Because one user can have a like so many instruments.
So it is taking the responsibility of handling in memory.
Now user service is kind of like bank service card service right.
So add instrument and get instrument by user ID.
Let's say you can add more methods.
Get instrument by ID right.
So let's say add instrument.
So let's say you want to add bank.
So it will it will goes to the bank service.
So here if you see that here the bank is specific logic I have written to create a bank.
So now from whatever the input which is coming from the instrument do now I want to create bank.
Right.
So I, I am only reading the fields which I am interested for creating a bank, right?
So I can also do validate that the important fields for creating a bank are present or not.
So I am creating this bank instrument adding into this map.
Right.
Uh, if if user is empty, like then I'm creating one user for this one.
If user doesn't have first time user adding a instrument, so that list would be empty, right?
So we are creating a new array list and then ultimately adding the bank to a particular user.
Right.
So this is just like in memory handling of the instruments.
And ultimately we are returning the instrument due back right.
What our client understands.
Similarly for get users like uh I want all the instruments which a particular user has.
So let's say I created this method.
I pass the user id from this map.
From this map user id, I will get a list of instruments, I will get a list of instruments, and that
ultimately I will do a mapping to a do and send it list of instrument do so.
Similarly, if you see that you can do a specific for card also.
So now here if you see that the validation.
So this is card specific logic here.
So validations and everything is specific.
You can add it here okay.
So you got the purpose of bank service and card service.
Why it is very very important.
Then here I have created one factory.
Right.
So this factory purpose is to select particular whether I need to do a bank operation or card operation.
Which one.
So this is which generally helps.
So and then we have a instrument controller.
So what instrument controller has is instrument controller has dependency on this factory.
So instrument controller expose a method right.
Add instrument and it will get instrument do get instrument.
And it will like okay this is the instrument I want to fetch.
So now here if you see that instrument controller things are very generic.
Add instrument.
You can add bank.
Also you can add card.
Also we don't know like only it has like instrument duo.
Instrument duo have already told you it has all the information for a particular instrument right.
Instrument ID, user id type, bank account number, ifSc code, CVC number, everything it has and
when it particular reach to a bank, they can read it whatever the field they want it to read from there.
So now what it will do is controller.
It will call this instrument service factory and pass the instrument type which is present into this
instrument.
Do hey this is the type is bang.
Now this factory will check okay.
It is a bank.
So it will create this object.
If it is a card it will create this object and it will return this object to this one controller.
Now controller can call just add instrument to a particular.
So it will call either bank service or card service.
Let me show you instrument controller.
So instrument controller has a dependency on factory okay.
So during add instrument.
So this is the let's say that API is interface exposed or API exposed by the controller add instrument.
So I am getting just instrument do like what user wanted to insert.
Now from this I'm calling this factory and passing from this duo and passing the instrument type and
this factory.
What it will do is when it gets the instrument type, it will check.
Okay.
If it is a bank, return the bank service.
If it is a card, return a card service.
Now, once it will get the particular service it will call the add instrument.
So it will call either add of bank service or card service right.
So here if you see that what we have done is that when from uh like a very, very generic method is
making use of factory and from that instrument type, it is now going to a very, very specific instrument
layer where it will handle this properly in future.
Any changes required into the card service, no changes would be required in the bank service, balance
service or any future services which you have.
Right.
So this is our instrument controller.
Okay.
And then we have is like transaction controller.
Okay.
So instrument controller also we know now the flow.
I will tell you one flow.
But for now just understand what all the things which we have done.
So now here if you see that for the transaction controller transaction controller let's go from start.
So payment gateway.
So this is the payment app right.
So it has to call the transaction service.
So it has to call.
So that's why I put transaction controller here at the app.
So now transaction controller has exposed the method like make payment or get transaction history.
So again it will get transaction do transaction.
Do I have already told you that it is nothing but a duo.
Like whatever the transaction entity present, we will create.
Its similar representation is duo, which is like our client understand.
So transaction controller is going to call your service.
So it has a relationship here.
Transaction service.
Now what it will do transaction service.
It will provide you the implementation mostly of make payment right.
So what it will do is that it will do validation.
Right.
And I told you that it it has to invoke the instrument controller also.
So here in the transaction duo you will get certain like say this is the debit transaction ID.
So you have to fetch the details of this transaction because you have to pass it to processor.
So you have to now call.
So now here if you see I am calling Instrument controller, right?
So during make payment you will call the instrument controller, fetch the detail and you can also pass
it to processor later on.
And once processor says success or failure you can create a transaction and putting it in status whether
it's a success pending or failed.
Right.
So I have kept three status success pending denied.
Okay.
So here transaction has transaction id amount sender user id receiver user id debit instrument id credit
instrument ID.
So ultimately this transaction will get stored.
And since one user can have many transaction so the transaction service is taken care of doing in memory
storage based upon the user ID to this list of transaction.
So that when from the controller, if anybody asks hey, get the transaction history of this user from
this user it can directly take out.
So let me show you the transaction.
So here if you see that this is the transaction controller, it has the dependency on transaction service.
Make payment method is invoked.
So when the make payment method is invoked it got transaction do.
So transaction do has everything sender id receiver id debit from where from where the debit has to
be done amount right.
And then it will call the service.
Now when the service will call it will do validate that specific fields are present or not.
Then it calls the instrument and it will fetch the sender ID details like hey this is the sender user
and this is the debit transaction.
Fetch me all its instrument.
Fetch me this instrument from where the user wants to debit the fund.
So now I have instrument do.
So here I have ifSc code bank account number which I ultimately send it to the processor.
Similarly, I can make use of instrument controller to see that hey, if user two has any default or
I can randomly pick any instrument for the user to write.
Uh, but for here.
In this example, I have just assumed that in the request transaction due itself, credit instrument
ID is coming.
So I'm just loading that from the instrument controller that okay, get it and pass it to the processor
for processing it.
Now based upon the response you can add the logic, but based on the response you can create a transaction.
I am just hard coding it to the success.
You are creating a transaction ID and storing all the details and making the transaction success pending
or denied based upon the processor response And ultimately here we are making a history.
So the same transaction I am storing it against user one the sender.
Sender.
User and also the receiver.
The same transaction because this same transaction should reflect into both.
So I am adding into both right.
So this is into the transaction services and having this map user list of transaction.
Okay.
So here if you see that this is all the classes which get involved into this one.
And here if you see now if I run one flow.
So what I've done is in the payment gateway I am running just one flow that add user one.
I am first adding a user one okay, added the user one I'm calling controller add user two adding a
calling the controller added now user one.
User two added now I'm adding a bank to a user one so I in the instrument do I am passing bank account
number bank type for which user it has to be associated, ifSc code, some random and then calling the
instrument controller and adding this bank.
Similarly add card to user two.
So for user two I'm adding a card.
So same instrument do.
But now I am setting card related information card number instrument type is card CVV expiry days.
You can send which user it belongs to and calling the instrument controller.
And it will do add instrument right.
So now when you do add instrument right.
So controller will use make use of factory instrument type.
So it was card right.
So it will return card service.
Now ultimately this goes to a card service and it will create a card instrument mint and add into this
user list.
Right.
So we have added users.
We have added instruments to the user.
Now we are making a payment.
Now while making a payment I created a transaction due that hey this is the amount I need to transfer.
This is the center user ID, this is the receiver user ID, second user.
This is the debit instrument where the debit has to be done.
This is where the credit has to be done.
So credit has to be done to the user.
To debit is happen from user one this bank instrument ID right.
And now I am calling the make payment.
So when it is going to make payment it ultimately uh fetching the details, processing the payment.
It will store this details right.
It will create one transaction ID for us and store this history in both.
Okay, so once the payment is done now it just you can do get and see that all informations are properly
there or not.
So I'm doing get all instruments or user one.
So only one should come which is bank get all instruments of user two.
One should come.
That is your card.
Get all transaction history for which user user one.
So you will get uh history for this one right.
So if you run it you will see this details.
So let me run it.
So here is the result.
So here first is two user added.
After that we added a bank to user one.
Right.
So we are printing bank instrument created for user one.
So bank instrument created for user one.
What is the bank ID 73.
Right.
Then we added a card to user two.
So card instrument created for user two.
So this is the card created for user two ID of the instrument is 54.
Then we did a payment right after that.
What we are doing is we are fetching all the instruments for user one.
So we are calling instrument controller, get all instrument passing the user ID.
So we should get only one instrument that is bank which id is 73.
So user user instrument ID which we got is 73.
User ID which was created was 84.
And instrument type we got is bank right for.
Similarly for user two we should get card.
So user two instrument ID is 54, user ID for the user two was 17 and the instrument type was card.
Because we have created card only right after that the payment which we have done, we wanted to see
a transaction history.
Right.
So I am now seeing a transaction history right.
So I am calling transaction controller get transaction history for the user ID user detail one, which
is for 73.
So for 73 it is fetching user one transaction ID.
So this is the transaction ID created for what amount?
₹10.
And who is the receiver transaction dot receiver ID who is the receiver.
The user two was 54 right now user was 17.
This was bank card ID right.
This is the user 217.
So here transaction got also stored.
So even I can fetch the.
I can fetch the history for the user two also.
So user two details.
Right.
Because the same details we are storing for user two also.
So for user two, user two transaction ID again it would be same 63 should have come same amount and
receiver is also the same in that case.
Get me the sender.
Who is the sender?
Sender should be 73 here.
So let's run it again.
So transaction ID is again 56.
Amount is ten.
So here sender.
So this is sender right I have corrected here.
So sender is 96.
So user one send a payment to user two okay.
So this is the payment gateway.
My understanding that generally how it should be done.
But if you still have any doubt right please go through it again slowly because it's a very very big
design.
So please go it slowly.
Go through this class diagram again right.
I will share the notes for this class diagram.
And I will publish this code to the git lab.
Right.
So we can discuss more if you have any doubts with it.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Object Pool Design Pattern (Creational Design Pattern) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to cover a new topic in low level design which is object pool design pattern.
So here if you see I actually I don't have any intention to cover this topic, but it is seems like
this question is getting asked a lot in interviews.
I am getting a lot of comments to cover it up.
Okay, so let's quickly see it because this is very, very simple.
But I think I found one thing where engineers are making a mistake in this very simple design pattern.
So I will touch that point also.
So the category which object pool design pattern belongs to is Creational design pattern.
What does it says?
It manages the pool of reusable objects like Dbconnection objects.
If you are familiar with Java, you already know thread pool in which there is a pool of threads.
And whenever you need a particular, whenever you need a particular thread you take out from the pool,
use it.
And once you use it, you add add it back.
Okay, so on the similar concept, this object pool design pattern is present.
So it manages the pool of reusable objects like DB connection which can be reused.
Okay.
It borrows from the pool, use it and then return it back to the pool.
So this is a two line definition which I can come up with for an object pool design pattern.
Advantage and disadvantage I will come to later.
Once we understand what exactly it is, then we will come to this point quickly.
So here we have three points 123.
So object pool design pattern.
So we have a pool of what objects.
So in this sense these objects are nothing but resource.
Okay.
So resource is the nothing but an object which need to be managed okay.
So that is the first is your resource.
You should have a resource.
Second thing is resource pool manager.
So now let's say you have multiple resources.
There should be some manager which manage those pool.
So we have second is resource pool manager okay.
So resource pool manager I told you it borrows from the pool.
Use it and return it back to the pool.
So this pool manager handles that capability.
So it maintains a list of free resources which you can use it.
It also maintain In what all the resources which are currently in use once they finish their work from
in use, it moved back to the free list.
Okay, so free list plus.
Free list plus in use is your total number of resource in a pool.
Okay.
Then you have something called initial pool size.
How in a initially in a pool how many resources are available and what is the maximum pool size?
How Max?
What is the maximum number of objects we can created in a pool?
Okay, so these are the member variables which is present into resource pool manager.
And these are the two methods get resource.
So whenever any one like say any client which is this third point.
Whenever any client want a particular resource it requests a resourceful manager.
Get me the resource and what it will do.
Resource pool manager.
It will check its pool, which is free, and it says that hey, if there is any free resource present
in this list, it will assign it and put that into in use.
And once client is done, it will call release resource right.
That particular object is removed from in use and move it back to the free list.
Okay.
So client is client has a relationship with resource pool manager.
Resource pool manager has a relationship with the resource okay.
So this looks very simple right.
And we can easily code it.
There is no problem in coding it.
I will show you the coding.
But when I show you the coding right there is one mistake with it.
There is one mistake which many engineers does this during an interview which takes the interview in
the wrong direction.
So I am explaining this code, but can you, after looking this code, can you just stop it for one
minute and tell me in the comment section what is missing in this?
Right.
Don't look the answer below or proceed further.
So just see that this is where the actually the mistakes happen.
Okay.
So now generally what happens is now we understand these three things.
We can easily code this three part.
So first part is your resource.
So now we have taken an example of DB connection DB connection is one resource.
So now here in this I am just making a dummy code.
Let's say I try to make a MySQL connection and this code is doing nothing but it doing a connection,
it doing with url username password.
It connect my application with the DB.
Okay so this is one my this is one connection.
It is creating.
Okay.
So this is a resource.
This is a pool manager DB connection pool manager which I am creating.
So as I told you first I have free connection in pool right?
It's currently empty.
Connection currently in use.
Currently empty.
Initial pool size right.
Initial pool size is three maximum.
We can have a DB connection in a pool is six.
Okay so now whenever.
So I have created one constructor.
So whenever some some client will create an object of this.
Right.
What I am doing is I am creating an initial pool size.
I will iterate this three times initial pool size.
And in the free connection pool I am adding new db connection, right?
So I am adding three object object one.
Object two object three.
So this is my currently free right and in use is currently empty.
Okay.
So now once client create a object of DB connection pool.
Now in the free list I have three db connection objects.
Which client can use it.
Now I have exposed one method public method get db connection.
If any client wants it, it can call this method get db connection right.
And when whenever this method is called what I'm doing is I'm checking.
Hey does free connection pool is empty.
No, it has certain data.
It has certain objects.
If it is, it will remove from the free connection pool.
Right?
It will remove it from the last and add it into in use.
Okay.
So remove one DB connection and put it in use.
Okay.
If this is empty.
What if this is free, is empty and in use has let's say object one.
Object two.
Object three.
This is in use and free is empty.
So we will check if free is empty and connection currently in use is less than max pool size.
Max pool size is six, but connections are currently in use is only three.
So means we can create new DB connection and put it into free list.
So here we can create one new DB connection and put it into free object for okay.
And after that it will remove it and use it if required.
Okay.
And one more condition I have added it.
If this is empty let's say object five is also there.
Object six is also there and this is empty.
Free list is empty if free connection pool is empty.
Yes.
And how many in use it is greater than equals to max pool size?
Yes.
Max pool size is six means all six are used.
Now you cannot create any more free list.
So I'm just simply returning null.
Okay so this is the simple get db connection I have added here.
But we can improve this method a lot based upon the interview.
Like what scenario we have been put, what all capabilities this get DB connection can have.
But this is generally the general de get db connection method.
Looks gonna look like.
Okay, now if client completed its work it will call release DB connection.
Right.
This is the DB connection it wanted to release.
Now what we have to do is when we have to release it, we have to remove it from the in use and put
it into free whatever the object would be.
So that's what we are doing.
If DB connection is not equals to null, remove it from the in use.
Put it back into the free.
Very very simple class right?
Whatever we have discussed here we have just coded it.
Okay.
And the client here if you see it is very simple like doing the same thing.
Get DB connection 123456.
Right.
So first three it would be able to create because in the initial pool size itself we have three objects
four, five six.
It will go inside this creating new connection right.
Because free connection pool is empty all three are used.
All three are used now for four, five, six it will go inside this.
It will add a new Dbconnection.
Now when I try to do a seventh one.
So what would happen?
Is connection currently in use already six are there right?
We have already created six one, two three, four five, six already created six and all are in currently
in use.
So six is your less than max pool size six false.
It will go into the second part right.
So three is currently empty.
Yes.
Connection currently in use six is greater than equals to your six.
Yes all six connections are used.
So it will not allow it will return null right.
And after that when you do release DB connection like you are trying to release the sixth disk, you
are trying to release this.
What it will do is from the pool connection in use, it will remove it and in the free it will add it.
Added.
Okay, so you can try.
Just see this what it is printing.
But it is very very simple object pool design pattern.
But there is one problem in this.
I hope you should have identified this.
If you don't able to identify that and if you code like this, definitely I can say that the interviewer
will pinpoint that one.
The thing is, the object pool design pattern is used with singleton design pattern and required thread
safety while acquiring and releasing the resource.
Why?
So here if you see that if your this class is not singleton class, then your client will create new
objects.
So what if I will create another new DB connection pool manager?
Now I created two times.
So when I created two times objects.
So ultimately you now have two objects where you have created free connection three here, three here.
If I create another new it will create new object which has three more.
Right.
So this breaks the purpose for which we are trying to solve.
So that's why we say that object pool design pattern is always used with singleton design pattern and
thread safety is must if you are designing it.
So singleton, you already know that we have already covered this.
So DB connection pool.
So here if you see I have now changed it to a singleton.
So the object for this one I have put private static right.
So private is it's only be accessible through this class not through outside.
Static is it belongs to this class not any object.
And currently instance is null.
So if client Ain't want to get an object of this class.
So I have exposed one method get instance right.
So this is the Getinstance method I have make public and static because you can't create an object of
it.
Constructor is private, constructor is private, so you can't create an object of it.
So that's why I have called the make this method static so that you can call it from a class.
So now this is double locking I am using it.
So I'm not explaining this.
You might already know it through singleton design pattern.
So now this will make sure that only one object is created for this class.
Okay.
So this client, no matter how many times it will call Getinstance get instance, only one object would
have been created.
And when you would have created one object, it would have created a pool with just three.
Okay.
And so this is the singleton part.
And the thread safety part is whenever you are doing get connection release connection right.
That required thread safety.
So means if multiple threads are trying to get a connection or releasing the connection, this list
should not get corrupted, right?
Only one thread at a time should update it.
So that's why the get db connection I have put synchronized here, right?
You can also use locking.
So in Java uh playlist you will see the locking videos.
But I have for simplicity I've just put a synchronize in the method itself.
So it will put a lock internally.
And only one thread can go inside this method.
And rest of the thing is same, right?
And similarly in the release db connection to maintain a thread safety I have put a synchronized here.
Okay.
So this point is very very important if you are designing an object pool design pattern.
Without this, if you have just simply coded it in a hurry, I would 100% say that the interviewer will
take the interview in wrong direction, because this is the crux for this object pool design pattern.
Now let's come to the advantage and disadvantage.
So very very visible advantages.
It reduces the overhead of creating and destroying the frequently required object.
Because now let's say that Dbconnection is object is very very resource intensive object.
It creates it takes a let's say a lot of time and it takes a lot of time also.
Right.
It's a resource intensive object.
So if you have already created beforehand certain you are maintaining the pool, you are actually reducing
the overhead of creating it, destroying it.
right and also helps in improving the latency.
So it reduces the latency also and reduces the overhead of creating and destroying frequently required
object.
Okay.
Also is prevent resource exhaustion by managing the number of resource intensive object creation.
So now let's say that if I am creating one object of this which takes, let's say ten MB, just for
example, if there is no control how many objects you can create of it, and if you create a large amount
of objects, you can go out of resource exhaustion, memory exhaustion.
So you can control it through pool that okay, only 50 objects can be created.
Only 20 objects can be created.
Whatever.
It's just an example.
So it prevent resource exhaustion by managing the number of resources.
So these are the top three advantages comes to my mind when I think about object pool design pattern.
But there are certain disadvantages also.
One very, very big disadvantage is resource leakage can happen if object is not handled properly and
not being returned to the pool back, its lost right?
Some leakage will happen.
That object would still be active and it's not destroyed.
But you can't access it.
You.
It's a resource leakage happen.
It didn't add.
Add it to the pool back.
Right.
You require more memory because of managing the pool.
So now this DB connection pool manager class will also take some memory also.
Right.
So that is your needed some extra memory right.
So that is also one disadvantage.
Pool management required thread safety which is additional overhead.
I already told you it it needed singleton plus thread safety.
So that puts an additional overhead.
You have to make sure that your the get the get resource and release resource should be thread safe
adds application complexity because of managing the pool.
So this adds certain complexity.
Also if in a big application.
Definitely the logic inside this also would be pretty complicated also.
So it brings application complexity.
So this is something I wanted to cover.
Object pool design pattern I hope that clarifies it.
It's a very, very simple design pattern.
But don't use it without thread safety and singleton without that it is totally incomplete.
Okay, I hope this will help you in your interview and if you have any doubts, please feel free to
comment me in the comment section.
We can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Network Protocols (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Coding.
So today what we are starting is our first video on high level design which is known as network protocols.
And as planned.
So here we will first cover network protocols all client models peer to peer model TCP UDP.
When to use.
WebSockets business TC because let's assume if you want to design WhatsApp which protocol to use.
If I want to create something like Google Meet for video calling streaming which protocol to use.
So we should know that.
So let's read the basics once what it is.
So let's start.
So the network protocol here you will see that whenever we have two.
Systems okay.
Two computers communicate over the network okay.
What rules and regulations it defines.
So network protocol defined rules so that two systems can communicate with each other.
Okay.
Even if both know the same language, they will be able to talk.
So that's where network protocol helps.
So here it defines some rules that if you want to send a message send it in this way.
So you must have studied in college that here we have seven kinds of network seven layers.
Seven layers I think.
Application layer.
Presentation layer.
Session layer.
Transport layer.
Network layer.
Data link layer kind of this thing.
So here we will cover all.
Here we will cover two important ones application layer and transport layer.
That's all.
So let's start with the application layer first.
So I will divide the application layer into two parts.
First client server protocols.
calls.
And what I will do is peer to peer protocols.
Okay.
In client server which protocols do we have HTTP.
FTP.
SMTP WebSockets.
These are all client server protocols in peer to peer one is like web RTC.
Okay so here the most important ones are our http websockets, web RTC.
These are the most important and widely used in a high level design okay.
So now let's quickly see what client server is and what peer to peer is okay.
In client server.
What happens here.
Let me create some space.
Let's take client server Okay.
In client server, what happens is that here we have one.
Web browser.
Which is considered as the client.
And we have another system which is called the web server which is running among us.
So we call it the server.
So what happens inside this is that in the client server model the client makes a request.
And the server gives a response back.
Okay.
So it's one way communication that the client will always initiate the talk with the server.
And the server will respond to it.
So whether you take HTTP, ftp, smtp it's like the same thing.
But WebSocket is a little different okay.
So how is WebSocket different.
Because in WebSocket there is also a client.
There is a server.
So here there is a client.
There is a server but WebSocket is a bidirectional communication so the client can talk to the server.
The server can talk to the client.
Okay.
That's the only difference.
But is it peer to peer.
No, WebSocket is not peer to peer.
Many times we make the mistake of calling WebSocket peer to peer.
So now look here.
If I have a server and I have client one.
And here I have client.
Two.
So the client can talk to the server.
The server can talk to client one.
The client can talk to the server.
The server can talk to client two.
But they will not talk to each other.
So it's not a peer to peer.
Okay.
And whenever we and this WebSocket.
Comes into play whenever we want to design something like WhatsApp telegram.
So whenever we want to design a messaging app we will use WebSocket here.
Right.
Because let's assume a message comes to the server.
So the server has to send it to the client.
The message is okay because the client will not keep asking every now and then.
Did the message come?
No, because that would be inefficient.
So whenever a message comes we needed the server to talk to.
So that's where the WebSocket comes into the picture.
Bidirectional talk.
Okay.
So now let's quickly see you already know what HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol is.
So it can be used.
So the first thing is that it is connection oriented okay.
So it is connection oriented.
Here a connection is created.
Okay.
And here we access web pages.
Inside web pages there are hypertext where we jump from one page to another.
And here what happens is then file transfer protocol.
In file transfer two connections are maintained.
One is the control connection, the other is the data connection.
Data connection can be created and disconnected, but the control connection always remains in FTP.
So this is the difference in SMTP.
SMTP is always used with iMap and Pop.
So SMTP is used for.
SMTP is used for sending the mail.
Sending the email iMap is used for receiving the mail.
Accessing the mail.
Accessing and reading the mail.
Pop pop3 is not used much these days in Pop3.
What happens is that whenever the mail is read, it kind of downloads it, and then it gets deleted
from there.
In iMap, what happens is that it's read from the server so we can read it on multiple computers, but
that's SMTP with iMap is widely used.
Okay.
So now you see even inside this there is a client.
So here what happens is there is an MTA message transfer agent.
It's client.
So these are users.
Users send messages here.
There is a user agent user send messages to MTA client.
MTA client talks to Mtas and message transfer agent.
Message transfer agent passes to the user agent again and here it delivers the mail.
The mail is coming from here.
Here we have mails and mail receive okay.
So it works in this way.
So here also you see you have a client here also we have a server okay.
So we will not go much deep into what SMTP is.
But what I want to tell you is that there is a client server.
You should understand what the difference between client server and peer to peer is.
Why WebSocket is a client server model okay, it's clear.
Now let's see once what is in peer to peer.
We have seen WebSocket understood this.
What happens in peer to peer is that here we have a server.
Here we have a client here I have one more client.
They all can talk with each other okay.
All three can talk to anyone and all can be clients.
All can be servers, whoever has the data.
Okay, so that's called peer to peer.
And here you will see that WebRTC is a peer to peer protocol.
Okay.
It doesn't need to go to the server.
It can directly talk between two machines.
That's why it is fast.
And now why is it fast?
Let's see one more here.
Now here it is.
Understood.
Now I am moving to the next one.
Transport layer.
Transport layer and network layer.
So now here we have two tcp ip and udp ip.
Okay.
So what happens in tcp IP.
In tcp IP you must know that here we first maintain a virtual connection okay.
Data goes through that virtual connection okay.
And here what happens is we make small packets.
Data packets.
And give them sequences.
Now those data packets are going okay.
The connection we made okay.
So here on the server side if two came one came.
But after that sequencing happens.
So here in TCP IP ordering is maintained.
And if any data packet doesn't arrive assume three didn't come.
Then what happens is acknowledgement and every packet is acknowledged.
Acknowledgement for one.
Acknowledgement for two.
If someone doesn't receive acknowledgement, it sends again.
So in TCP IP we understand what happens is that ordering takes place here is divided into small packets.
Ordering happens.
Acknowledgement happens.
Connection is maintained now in UDP.
What happens is that the data that needs to be sent, the first thing is no connection is maintained
here.
There are various connections and it divides it into small data grounds and sends it here.
It sends it parallelly on multiple virtual connections.
Okay?
Not on one connection.
So now it's possible here that the first packet ordering is maintained.
Ordering is not maintained because we are not doing ordering here.
So if the first packet came later, the one sent earlier came later.
This one came first.
So that's possible okay.
But what's the specialty of UDP.
It's fast.
And why is it fast.
You found out because we are not doing acknowledgment not maintaining connection not maintaining ordering
okay.
We just send it.
So it's just a best effort.
Just try it best.
It's best for it.
Mechanism to transfer data.
And when does UDP come into play UDP comes into play when we do live streaming Okay, when we do video
calling, when I'm doing video calling.
Assume I miss something.
Okay.
But you will keep listening ahead, right?
What was missed earlier?
You won't listen to it again.
So these are the use cases where UDP comes in picture okay.
And WebRTC uses UDP here.
At the lower layer okay.
So this is the protocol WebRTC protocol UDP protocol to transfer data.
And because it's fast because I'm live streaming.
So my data is fast access.
So wherever I require data to be fast I will use UDP wherever ordering is not an issue.
Data packet loss is okay.
So it's okay.
Okay.
And when to use WebSocket.
You found out when we have to design a messaging app we will use WebSocket there.
Why?
Because I need two way communication.
Because if user one here you see user two send a message to user one.
Client one.
Then the message came to the server.
Now the server has to tell the client that you received the message.
Okay, so I have to talk server to client two.
So it's two way communication.
So I will use WebSocket when I need two way communication.
In case of messaging app and otherwise based on the requirement I will use http.
I will use FTP.
We never use FTP.
You must have seen because in FTP the data connection that is made.
Guys it's not encrypted.
So here is the client.
Here is the server okay.
Here a control connection is made.
And here a data connection is made.
So whatever file is transferred from this data connection that is not encrypted.
So that's why FTP is not secure.
That's why we are not using it.
That's why we are using Https secure transfer protocol.
Hypertext Transfer Protocol secure.
So we are using HTTP that's why.
So guys overall you understood what network protocols are okay.
What client server is what peer to peer is and in which use cases we will use them.
Mostly HTTP will be used when we design a messaging app.
Then WebSocket will be used when we make something like live streaming video, video calling, etc.
then UDP will be used, WebRTC will be used and when to use TCP we also found out.
So with this our first base is done and we will move to the second.
So let's start from the base okay.
We.
Will cover up very quickly too.
But the base should be good.
When to use what.
Okay guys if you like the video please subscribe to it and definitely share it.
Iron.
And have a good day.
Bye.

--- CAP Theorem (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed ---

Hello guys.
Welcome to Concept Coding.
So today is our second video on high level design where you will see cap theorem with very easy examples.
In an interview you might be directly asked to define cap theorem and explain it.
If not, when you design a system, especially a high level design, you need to think about this first,
because your entire design changes, you have to make some trade offs.
And if we don't consider those trade offs early on, it becomes very difficult to change the system
design after it's fully developed.
That's why it's important and comes in the very starting phase.
So now I'll tell you what Cap theorem is in very simple terms and with examples.
Cap system defines desirable properties.
So these are desirable properties.
Of a distributed system.
With replicated data.
Remember this line?
All right, so what are these desirable properties?
Cap R.
Stands for availability and P stands for partition tolerance.
So these three are the desirable properties of a distributed system.
Distributed system means here I have also these are all nodes.
Okay.
Assume these are db nodes.
DB node b I also have this db node db node c okay.
Now this is how it is.
If let's assume an application.
So it's a distributed system where the application can query be and can also query C and assume that
B's server is in India and this is in the US.
So my DB is spread across different continents, but they are synchronizing with replicated data stores.
Okay.
The data in B is the same as the data in C.
So it's a distributed system with replicated data.
Okay.
With replicated data.
Meaning the data in B is what I'm replicating in C.
So assume this is a very short term example of a distributed system.
Let's take this example.
So what did we say.
Desirable properties of a distributed system with replicated data.
These are the three desirable properties.
But the good part is or you can say the unique part is that all three cannot be used together.
Okay.
So assume this is my consistency.
This is my availability and this is my partition tolerance.
So either I can use Sia.
Or I can use CP or I can use AP availability and partition.
But I cannot use this.
This area is not usable.
All cap cannot be used together, meaning all three properties cannot be used together in a distributed
system where we have replicated data.
Why?
Let's see this with an example of why this is very important and understanding partition tolerance is
very important.
There is a lot of confusion in partition tolerance.
So let's see this with a simple example.
So first what do you understand by consistency.
When I say consistency Consistency means if you assume that currently node B has data, node B has assume.
Currently the data is a equals four, and A wrote that write a equals five.
So B changed itself to five.
Successful right happened.
So whenever a successful write happens we will replicate this data to C.
So what it had.
As four it will also change itself to five C will also.
So what consistency says is that even if A wrote here on B.
But when it reads from here it should still get five.
So consistency means getting consistent data okay, so after a successful write in any node, if it
reads from any other node, it should get the same data.
That is what consistency is.
What do you mean by availability?
Availability means that every request receives a response whether it is successful or not.
It ensures that the system is always operational.
What does availability say?
Let's assume I have two DB nodes B and C.
So availability says that all nodes meaning b c both nodes should at least respond.
It's not necessary, but they should respond.
So all nodes should respond.
Either with success or failure they should respond with something like I couldn't fetch the data or
the data was fetched.
At least both should respond.
So it means that as long as all DB nodes are responding, it means it's available.
What do you mean by partition tolerance?
Now let's understand partition tolerance, which is very, very important and where most confusion occurs.
Partition tolerance means that when two nodes.
B and C are replicating data between each other.
These are DB nodes.
This is also a DB node.
If because whenever an update operation comes here, anything comes.
They replicate to each other.
If.
Let's assume there's some breakage here in communication okay.
But my system, the overall system, let's assume it's hidden.
The user, the hidden, doesn't know whether the data is being replicated or not.
They only know how to query.
And they don't know if they're querying from C or from whom.
So if I say in user terms, the user doesn't know whether he's querying A or B, okay.
The user only knows that he's querying a system internally whether he's querying from B or C.
That's the problem of a distributed system.
What is it for one?
For the application is just about querying.
So let's assume what partition tolerance says is that if the communication between B and C breaks,
but F is still able to query.
So that is like partition tolerance okay.
Inside, if you see in a way a partition has occurred, B is separate, C is separate.
They can't communicate with each other, but F is still able to cover one is still querying and getting
requests from here.
And responses are also being received.
So it means it's partition tolerant.
It means the system is up, the system is up, the system hasn't gone down, but it's still able to
query.
A is still getting data, but how it's being fulfilled inside.
We'll see.
But that partition tolerance is if there's a partition breakage here in my communication.
But the system is up a is still able to query.
So now let's see the first thing.
Why can't we use all three together.
Why we cannot use all three together.
Okay.
So now let's see here.
Let's understand it this way.
What are the possibilities?
Consistency.
Availability.
Consistency partition and availability partition.
These three are possible.
What is not possible?
Cap.
Not possible.
All three can't be achieved together.
And let's see why.
So first let's see why CP can't be together.
So let's assume we take the same example.
B and C are db nodes where our data is replicated into each other.
Okay, now let's assume first What did I say?
I'm taking cap.
Whatever design I make for the system, I'm saying I need all three cap I need.
See?
Meaning consistency should be there.
Meaning the data here should be the same as the data there at any point of time.
If it's read anywhere after that, read from anywhere, write anywhere.
And if I read from anywhere, the same data should come.
Consistency is possible.
Now I need availability to that.
If I query B, it should respond.
If I query C, it should respond to okay, CS is possible.
Now I said my system should be partitioned all line meaning I said that my system here both have broken.
Even then all these properties should be maintained in all three and the system should be up, the system
should be up and it should be consistent.
Is it possible?
Let's see.
So now you will see that here.
My break has happened.
Partition has happened.
Okay, so now assume I said make a request to write six.
Here I changed and did it.
Now this request will learn that update tours.
But here there is a partition breakage okay.
So this request will go ahead.
Otherwise what happened.
It couldn't update to five.
Assume the breakage was for five minutes.
So for five minutes the system remained inconsistent.
Okay.
Updated itself to six, but we couldn't send the request to see to update itself.
Okay.
So what happened with this?
It became inconsistent for the five minutes this thing happened.
And if request reaches to node C then it will return stale data.
So we can't maintain consistency.
If I drop consistency, then what do I have?
AP means available and partition is there.
So this one happened that a, B, c.
That here a cost was five a cost was five.
When A wrote wrote here made a cost six.
And there was a partition here.
There was a partition here due to communication gap.
So a updated itself to six b the B node, the value of a in it became six.
But due to partition communication breakage c became inconsistent.
So what I'm saying here is I drop c here I dropped C but B is still available.
If a query is B, it will still respond.
Success or failure.
C will still respond success or failure.
So both are available.
So availability is maintained.
And partition tolerance means that even if the system is broken one can still query.
The system is not down but consistency is not maintained when querying A6 is coming, C when querying
C five is coming.
Consistency is not there, but AP is possible.
Okay, now let's try another use.
Try to find another use.
But now I'm saying that no I can't lose consistency.
Okay I can't lose consistency because this partition has happened here.
Let's see once again.
So here what I said is.
Here is one node D cost five.
It takes DS five and is writing DS six.
Okay, so I said that if when.
C and A I have taken consistency.
Availability is there.
Now I have a partition okay.
Partition happened for five minutes okay.
So I said no I need consistency I can't drop consistency.
So in partition tolerance if I need the same data, no matter how many times I read or write, I will
have to take one node down.
Okay.
So what I'm doing here is if the system still needs to be up okay.
So I'm taking this down.
Down the C I took C down okay.
So internally all requests are being fulfilled by B.
Okay.
So what I did here is achieved consistency.
So a what a did a wrote to be here updated six.
So here it became six.
But I have kept one down.
So here even when there is breakage, I don't have to update because it is down.
This request won't be fulfilled.
Okay, so any new read request will come to be.
So I will always have consistent data.
If six is written, six will be received.
Okay, so I achieved consistency, but to keep the system up I had to give up availability.
So CP is possible.
C p cp is possible.
I achieved CP but removed availability.
Why?
Because I needed the system up.
Because I needed CP.
The system needed to be up, but also needed to be consistent.
So to maintain consistency I had to take one note down.
So not all nodes are up.
Only one node is up.
Okay, now the third thing is here.
So now here you'll see a, b, c.
Now I'm saying that I need consistency and availability.
Okay.
So I if a partition happens here okay.
So it means.
They can't sync with each other.
But I need consistency and availability.
Meaning this should be up.
This should be up.
Consistency should be maintained here.
Case two is five here.
Case two is five.
So it means the partition p.
Is not partition tolerant.
If the partition happens my system can't stay up.
It's not partition tolerant.
If the partition happens, my system will go down.
Okay.
So I can achieve k.
But by removing partition, meaning the system can't stay up.
But I will achieve k.
But my partition tolerance is not their partition.
Tolerance means that now my request can't be fulfilled after partition.
My system is not tolerant.
According to that, I will have to stop the request.
One should not query one.
Neither can it query B nor C.
Assume it is allowed to query it wrote so I know it will write, but due to communication gap inconsistency
will happen.
So I shouldn't allow it to write.
Okay, so I will have to stop the system for a while until this partition tolerance is removed.
Okay, I hope you understood all these use cases.
Why Cap can't be possible together.
And while doing this cap, how we derived c cp AP okay.
And now in the real world if you see p is very much required.
So whatever system you design never trade off on partition tolerance, because nowadays distributed
architecture is in use and distributed systems are in use.
So it's a very common scenario that communication comes here and communication comes.
Communication breakage comes.
This doesn't mean we stop the system.
If communication breakage comes for ten minutes.
For ten minutes any system is down.
Any company is down.
That is not good.
So we have to keep the partition, but we have to choose one from C and a either CP or C okay.
Or then AP or then choose C from C a or choose a from c a.
So these are the kind of options in interviews.
When asked what would be your trade off on consistency availability partition okay, okay, we will
never trade off for partition.
We will trade off only between consistency and availability, remember.

--- Introduction: Microservices (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed ---

Hello guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
So today we have the third video in the High Level Designer series.
We have already covered two videos.
And this third part is on monolithic versus microservices covering all important microservices patterns.
Let's understand what architectures we have.
We have two types of architectures monolithic and microservices.
Monolithic and microservices.
So what do you understand by monolithic?
First let's understand the meaning of monolithic.
Nowadays we refer to monolithic as legacy applications.
When you join a company, they might say this is a legacy application that needs to be migrated to microservices.
So legacy is also now used as monolithic applications because nowadays no one uses it.
Why is it not use because in monolithic.
Let's assume you are building an online.
Store.
So you have put all functionalities into one application, just one application.
It takes care of everything like generating orders, managing product inventory, login, management,
billing, payment and all back end functionalities are in one application and that's why it's called
a monolithic single application where everything is.
So what are its dis?
Advantages?
What are its disadvantages that force us to move from monolithic to microservices?
The first disadvantage is what I would call here.
Overloaded ID.
You might have noticed that whenever you try to load your company's legacy application on an ID, it
either doesn't load or takes a long time because it becomes so large, sometimes reaching gigabytes.
So it becomes an overloaded ID.
It becomes very difficult to load it on the ID, and you know how important the ID is for a developer
to work.
So first is the overloaded ID.
Second.
Scaling is very hard.
Okay.
What does scale mean?
Scale means to grow.
Alright.
When do you grow?
When all your operations are fast first, your CI jobs are fast.
Okay.
What do you mean by CI continuous integration?
So when you talk about DevOps where your regression, running it, pushing it, monitoring it all these
are fast.
Then your scaling will also be fast.
Slowly.
Right?
I mean scale is not like you are just increasing it.
Scaling.
I would also say that all your sub operations okay, how easy it is to manage them.
Scaling will be that easy to if scaling is very hard here.
Why is that?
Because all the functionality is within this within one.
Okay, if you have to change anything, let's say I have to change one line.
There's an online bug I need to fix.
So what will you do?
First you'll do regression on the whole thing.
Push the whole thing.
It will be monitored okay.
So it takes a lot of lot of time okay.
And if you have to change one line then here you have to see that this is a very tightly coupled.
This is a very tightly coupled application.
Okay.
What does tightly coupled mean?
If you change one line, it might impact so many domains.
In this there are no domains.
Everything is in one application.
But what I'm trying to say is let's say you have order code, then you have product code, then you
have payment code all within one.
If you fix one line here, it might be that the product is also using the same code.
The order is also using the same code, so it will impact both.
So you have this very tightly coupled okay.
So whenever you have to change something you have to test everything okay.
And then you have to deploy the entire application again deploy the entire application again.
Right.
And here it takes a lot of lot of lot of time okay.
Very.
It will take time to deploy.
And it will take a lot of time for regression to end.
And the biggest thing is if one application is in GB okay, let's assume there is a particular piece
of code.
Meaning let's assume it's payment billing.
All functionality is put inside one, but I just have ordering.
The capacity for ordering is very high, meaning the API for ordering the code in it is coming in very
high.
Okay, how you would scale.
If you have to do scaling, you will have to add another server with the entire application GB.
If this is ten GB, then a whole one and another ten GB application server will have to be added.
Even if I just have to scale the functionality of the order, it is not possible.
Let's assume I have a product inside it, a piece of code.
When a piece of business logic, let's assume I just have to scale it.
Is it possible in monolithic?
No, you have to scale the entire application, which is much costlier also, and it is very difficult
to scale.
Okay.
And why scaling difficult?
Because firstly you saw that debugging is very hard.
CI job regression run deployment is very hard, right?
If you have to fix the code, just fix the code then how difficult it will become when there is such
a.
Large code base.
Okay, so I can go on and on about this disadvantage.
Okay.
What are the disadvantages of monolithic.
So after so many disadvantages now let's see why there was a need for microservices.
Okay.
All the disadvantages of monolithic are an advantage of microservices.
Okay.
So now here I have divided a very large application into small parts and divided it into small services
like one product, one order management, one billing one payment.
One account management one login.
I can go on different services, right?
If I find a bug in any one of them, I just have to debug it in the service, fix it here and deploy
it here.
Okay, so how easy has it become?
All right.
So earlier I was taking the entire overall.
Now I need to work on just one service.
Okay.
So managing the component has become very, very easy.
Yes.
Managing has become very easy for the developer.
The second thing is scaling.
I am getting a lot of traffic for orders so I can scale just the order.
Okay.
I can add more of its services to it.
All right.
So scalability is very good.
I can scale what I need.
You can see it's pocket friendly also.
Why should I pay to scale my login when the work is getting done as it is?
I can scale the component I need.
Okay.
So there are a lot of advantages.
All the disadvantages of microservices in monolithic.
That is an advantage of microservices.
And this is a very good interview question.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of microservices.
It's very good.
It's a very important interview question.
There are many advantages.
All the disadvantages we saw are actually advantages okay.
And now let's look at its disadvantages.
Right.
So now let's look at the disadvantages.
Now what are the disadvantages.
The first thing.
The first disadvantage is that this proper breakage means the way we broke the monolithic service into
small services, it should be done properly, so there should be some understanding of how I should
break it.
So the first disadvantage is that it should be done properly.
If it's not properly divided into microservices, it might cost a lot.
Of.
So let's say I divided this monolithic into four components, but it should be loosely coupled.
The thing with microservices is that all the services you are making should be loosely coupled.
But let's assume I made it in such a way that it's not loosely coupled.
So whatever request comes in.
So I have to do a lot of communication okay.
This has a dependency on this.
This has a dependency on this meaning.
To complete one request, it's become quite tightly coupled.
Meaning if I have to change something in this, then I have to change this, to change this to okay,
if I have to change this, then I will have to change this to.
So I haven't created a loop system.
Okay.
So what will happen is that here when one service communicates with another service there is latency.
Latency issue.
So our latency can go up where here.
Assume one API was working in 5 milliseconds or 2 milliseconds or five milliseconds.
Here it might start working in ten milliseconds due to latency.
So latency can increase if we don't divide the components properly.
And if we don't decompose the monolithic system properly.
Undershoot.
So this is a big disadvantage that if you don't design microservices properly, they won't remain loosely
coupled internally.
We are still saying this is service one.
This is service two.
But if you see they are not loosely coupled they are very tightly coupled.
What does loosely coupled mean?
Loosely coupled means that I can scale a particular service.
Okay.
I can change anything in it without making an impact on the other service.
But if I'm making it tightly coupled, then if I'm scaling this, it might be that I have to scale this
too.
So there will be a problem here.
So this is the first disadvantage.
Second.
Now you will see that deployment happened live.
Okay.
So this is service one.
Service two.
Service three.
Okay.
Now this service is live.
It made several new code changes, new code changes, made new code changes and it went live.
Because of these changes.
Maybe S2 services using S3.
Okay, if you assume earlier it used to send a response.
But after the new changes it did a dash something change in the response?
Exactly.
Something change in the behavior of a try.
It will break a try.
It will break S2.
So one is using S2 and this got break.
This also got break.
So what happens here is that firstly it's very difficult to monitor which components I need to monitor.
If I'm pushing this because it's clients can break.
If I changed something in its response or something that S2 is using due to the new code and changes
from S3.
Okay, so there's a bit of complexity here that whenever a service goes live, its clients can get impacted,
making debugging a bit hard.
Assume this broke so the engineer from this team will come and start debugging it.
So they'll say oh, it's failing because of S2.
I'm calling S2.
It will go to the S2 team.
Now the S2 team engineer will say, okay, we got failed because of S3.
Then S3 will come and solve the problem.
So by looking at the R it is very confusing where the error lies in who is the culprit.
Okay if S3 is the culprit, but S3 is running perfectly but its clients broke.
So here monitoring becomes.
A bit difficult.
Okay, the third most main very very important.
Transaction management.
Okay.
Assume this one DB one.
dv okay.
And one request.
Comes I can create a transaction.
And I told you that the properties of SL should be fulfilled so I can start the transaction.
Once the DB operation is complete, I can stop.
But in microservices what happens?
This application has its own DB.
This application has its own DB, this application has its own DB.
So it can only start a transaction.
Stop a transaction okay.
But if a request is coming and it needs to be processed by more than 1 or 2 services, assume service
one and service two will together process a request in 2000.
So if you look here, a common transaction cannot be made.
It's not possible because it's 2D right.
So transaction management what is this got success and this got fail.
What is this God?
This God fail.
Alright, so what's simple here?
If only one DB is successful, we will proceed.
If it fails, we will roll back.
If there are ten tables and out of ten tables.
Eight tables are successful and insertion fails in two tables.
Then I will roll back.
But what about this here?
Insertion is successful in tables, but it failed in this DB, so I will have to roll back here as well.
So transaction management is a little difficult.
So there are some disadvantages in microservices.
But we have a solution.
Now comes the second part of the video.
We can divide microservices into two parts micro and service.
Now we are saying it should be micro.
Micro means small.
How small?
How much small?
Is there any definition of this?
I'm saying to break a monolithic right, or if a new application is to be made from the start as microservices,
then how many small services should I make?
So there should be some pattern right to guide me.
I will tell you a high level where different patterns are used and which one we are covering up now.
So now look here.
What are the different phases of microservices.
The first is.
Decomposition.
The second is.
Database.
The third is.
Communication.
The fourth is.
Integration and governance.
Let me start with this.
What do they mean?
All right, so each level has a meaning.
Okay.
Let's assume it's a monolithic service.
So decomposition is defining some patterns for me based on those patterns.
Can I decompose this big one into smaller parts.
All right.
How small.
How much micro okay.
So there are different patterns.
Which patterns are there.
Decompose by.
Business capability.
All right.
What's the second one.
Decomposed by sub domain.
The first phase is decomposition dividing a large service into smaller ones.
Or if you are automatically creating a new service, then how to decide how small a service should be?
There are different patterns.
So here it is the database.
Now you have made small services.
Now should I keep a separate database for each one.
Or should I maintain a common database for everyone.
This is my database.
There is a common database for all of them here.
They all are using the same thing.
Okay, so different design.
So what is here is service on the database.
Or database shared.
Next is communication.
Now you have created different services.
How will they communicate with each other.
There are different ways for that.
We have different patterns.
So different patterns are explained like you can do API communication via API via events and minimal.
But you understand what communication is.
Then comes integration.
This microservice also needs to be integrated with the level like user interface.
So some other applications how will they integrate with each other.
Okay.
So there could be something like API gateways and many other patterns.
Okay.
So you will see that at many phases these are different phases.
You can call them different phases from starting to create microservices to breaking down one big service
into pieces.
Right up to the end finally comes observability.
To monitoring.
How many patterns are there?
So at each phase.
At the decomposition phase, I chose this pattern at the database phase I use this pattern at the communication
phase.
Let's say I use this pattern at the integration phase.
Let's say out of this I use this pattern.
So mixing all the patterns together then your microservices form.
So you saw how complex it is.
Have you ever thought that microservices involve so much.
Right.
In interviews we directly say that this is the.
Here you take a load balancer and here are different microservices.
And okay we keep making them quickly.
But here many questions can arise about how you will divide in microservices.
Why.
Okay.
So this is where patterns help in deciding whether to divide microservices or not.
Which microservice will be suitable for which question.
So today we open the decomposition pattern.
All right.
Now here teaching first our.
Decomposition pattern.
You understand the meaning of decomposition pattern.
I have to divide one big into small parts.
How small?
How much?
How much small?
That's what the decomposition pattern tells.
So in this we have to decompose.
Subdomains.
This is called d d d there.
And one is decomposition business functionality.
And this is also called capability.
All right.
So decomposition here we have two patterns.
So let's look at the first pattern.
Business capability.
Business capability pattern.
So what does business capability say.
Let's take an example of some online order application.
So here what business functionality do I have.
All right so what can I have here.
Order management.
Product management.
All right.
These are all different business functionalities.
You can say what is its job.
Its job is just to manage orders.
Manage the incoming orders.
What is its job to manage inventory then what is one account management.
Login.
All right.
Billing.
Payment.
All right so I can go on.
So here you will see how we have divided each one based on business functionality.
What is its job?
The one whose job is to take orders, make it a separate service.
The one whose job is to handle products.
Make it a separate service.
The one whose job is to handle user accounts.
Make it a separate service.
Make logging a separate service billing payment.
So what have we done here?
According to your business capability business function you create services.
So what is the challenge here?
Here one challenge is that you should have good knowledge.
Of what functions are there in your business.
If you don't have clarity on this, then it becomes a bit difficult to decide whether this service will
be made or not.
So the first thing necessary in this is good knowledge of your business functionality.
Business capability.
All right then only you would be able to determine the proper business This functionality okay.
So you can divide it in this way.
So the first thing is to divide based on business capability.
It doesn't matter how small it is.
And here if you say there's no definition of small micro assume for one application this much is micro.
But for someone else this is micro.
For someone such a big application can be one micro.
It depends on how big a project we are making, how much one service will be called micro for someone.
Such a small application is a micro service.
For someone, it's so big.
For someone, it's bringing such a big micro.
So that depends.
So order management itself is very big, but.
If you look at it for this these are micro services.
This is known for him.
It's known micro.
This is known micro.
This much services.
Micro.
You got it right.
There's no definition of micro.
Micro is used in context in which context someone considers themselves.
Micro order management itself is a very big application.
Okay.
But the way we are designing it, in that case it is a micro service because here I have divided based
on business capability.
So this is one micro service.
This is another micro service.
Okay.
So now let's come to the second divided by subdomain.
Okay.
In divided by subdomain.
Now what happens is I told you that here one module can be very big in itself right.
When it can be very big in itself, can we divide it into submodules or not?
Okay.
So that's why it is known as domain driven design okay.
Here what BDD is also called domain.
Driven design.
Now, what it says is that domain driven means you have one order management as one domain.
Okay, this is not a microservice.
I'm not calling it a microservice yet.
So I said, okay.
Order management is one domain.
This is one domain here.
What we were calling this this became one service.
This is my microservice.
But in the subdomain.
What am I saying.
Decompose by subdomain.
This is my domain okay.
A domain can have multiple microservices.
Payment is one domain.
Okay.
Within payment there can be many microservices.
Forward.
You can see forward payment when here user one is making a payment and you can say one reverse payment
where it means refund, etc..
All this is coming.
So there are different microservices right?
So here I am dividing based on domain.
But here I have done it based on business capability.
Order is one business capability functionality.
Make this one service.
But you will see here that by subdomain you can divide one domain into more pieces.
Order management can be divided into order tracking.
Here what else can be related to order order tracking.
Order placing I am placing an order okay.
Similarly.
Like this.
Okay.
Divided into small subdomains.
Similarly payment.
The example I gave you.
What happens in payment one user has to pay another user.
So after making the payment it may also need to be referred back to the user.
So it has two domains.
One is like payment forward payment where I am making the payment.
The second is reverse payment.
I am reversing it back where I added another capability referred capability became another capability.
Here the capability became the capability to make a payment.
So you see I divided it domain wise.
Okay.
So you understood the difference.
What is the first difference?
They seem very similar.
But there is a big difference here.
I first defined the domain that this is a domain.
And within that domain I extracted small independent services okay.
But in the first one what was happening in business functionality was that I saw the functionality.
This is one functionality order, management order.
It is all related functionality of order.
Make it one service.
This is all related to payment.
Make it one service.
But in sub domain it is not like that.
Got it guys.
So ten.
What nose decomposition part?

--- Microservices Patterns: SAGA Pattern, Strangler Pattern (English Dubbed) ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Coding.
Today we are looking at Microservices Design pattern part two.
If you haven't seen part one I would suggest you watch it first.
Where we learned about the decomposition pattern and how it works.
After that, if you watch this, it will help you better understand how microservices evolve.
First, we divide them into smaller parts, which is explained by the decomposition pattern.
Today I will discuss three patterns with you and two of them are very important.
All right.
So what are these three patterns?
The first pattern is the strangler pattern.
Strangler pattern.
The second pattern is the saga pattern.
And the third pattern is seekers.
All right.
So I will discuss these three patterns with you.
The two patterns Strangler pattern and saga pattern are very, very important.
I will also tell you about an interview question related to saga, which is crucial to know if you are
working with microservices.
All right.
So let's start with the Strangler pattern.
When do we use the strangler pattern.
It is used when we are refactoring.
To microservices.
You already have a monolithic service.
And now I need to transition it to microservices.
I learned from the decomposition pattern how to divide it into parts.
So the journey from monolithic to microservices involves refactoring this.
Is what I need to refactor this code into smaller parts.
How do I do this?
The Strangler pattern guides me.
The strangler pattern suggests that we have a kind of controller here.
There is a controller.
So what can you do with this controller?
You can manage the percentage of traffic.
Let me explain it to you this way by placing the controller here.
This is the controller.
And this is my incoming traffic.
This is my API traffic.
All right, this is my API traffic.
So here, what I'll do is let's assume the controller has just a few services.
empty like some services.
I haven't built out all the components yet because there can be many flows in a monolithic.
But I have just started converting the monolithic to microservices and have enabled only one particular
flow.
Okay, so what I'll do is that particular flow.
Or traffic wise I can take 10% traffic into microservices.
Okay.
So what this controller will do is decide where to send the API traffic, whether to send it to microservices
or to the monolithic.
If let's assume I send it to the micro.
Services but the microservices fail, then I can suddenly bring it down to 0% on microservices and send
everything to the monolithic, indicating there's some breakage or a bug.
Once I solve that bug, I'll test it again.
Okay.
Start with 10% traffic.
So out of 110, APIs will go here.
90 will go there slowly.
As I gain confidence, I'll increase it to 20, then 50, and ultimately 100%.
Then what will happen is it will go to zero.
So do you understand the meaning of straggler?
In a way it means to throttle something, right?
So here we are, slowly throttling the monolithic, gradually increasing it.
As we write more flows.
It's never possible to convert the entire monolithic to microservices at once and then take the traffic.
You will never see that anywhere.
What we do is we build out small parts from the monolithic to microservices, and they keep taking the
traffic.
So what will happen is slowly if earlier it was handling 1000 transactions, 1000 APIs were coming.
We are slowly building out the flows in microservices.
As we keep sending its traffic here, it will gradually decrease from 1000 to 900.
Then as we add more features to it, it will slowly become 500, 500, then gradually 200, then it
will become 100 and slowly this will happen, this will become 100.
And then ultimately we will delete the monolithic.
If any issue arises here, I can control it by saying, hey, don't take traffic here.
There's an issue here.
So again, move traffic to the monolithic.
This pattern is called the strangler pattern.
This is how we refactor a monolithic into microservices.
Got it guys.
It's a very important pattern for how you will take one monolithic to microservices.
So that's what is told by the Strangler pattern.
I hope you understood it.
Well.
Now let's move on to the most important thing.
But before explaining saga, I call this data.
Management.
In microservices.
There are two types of.
Databases.
For each.
Individual service.
And here what we have is a shared database.
So far what have we seen.
Decomposition has happened.
We've made smaller parts.
Refactoring has been done in such a way that we bring the big into the small, but now we need a DB.
So there are two ways for the DB as well.
Okay, so here see what the first one says.
It says database for each individual service.
Now assume that I divided the monolithic into three services.
Service one.
Service two.
Service three.
These are my three microservices.
So what this says is that here each service has its own DB.
In a shared database, what happens is that there are three services S1, S2, S3.
I have only one DB and all three are using it.
So first let me tell you this is very important.
This is very important.
And where saga and KCRW's are used, I will tell you why we had to use saga and why KCRW's.
But first let me tell you why the shared database is not so successful and why do we always use this
database for each individual service?
So why isn't a shared database so successful?
All right, let's assume that I have three services here.
All three have one database.
Now, here's the first case.
That the data from service two is coming in large amounts.
Let's assume this is an online order and online e-commerce kind of application.
So service one is nothing but the order.
Service S2 is something called inventory.
And S3.
Let's assume is something related to payments.
Now let's assume that I'm not adding inventory as quickly as I am receiving orders.
All right.
Even if I have two inventories, two products, but I am receiving orders in millions, then I have
to scale my database for this order.
But if I have a common database now, I have to scale the entire thing.
All right.
Let's assume its capacity is two GB, C or whatever in memory capacity is called.
then I have to increase the whole thing.
All right.
For the entire DB, it will increase for this as well.
And for this two if I need an individual component, I can't scale it.
Correct.
You got the foresight.
All right.
Let's assume that if one team has this common database.
All right.
It has ten tables.
Table one two.
Table ten.
All right.
Let's assume S3 needs to make some modifications in table ten.
All right.
Let's assume a column needs to be deleted.
So can it delete it.
No because this database and these tables are shared between services and service.
So all right it has to check all dependencies.
If I delete it will there be any other impact apart from my service.
That's another issue that you can't quickly do what you need according to your work.
You can't do it, so it's not scalable.
All right.
If you have a small service.
All right.
And then you can use a small number of components, you know it won't scale that quickly.
Then you can use it.
But otherwise it's not that scalable.
And you found out the reason.
Two big reasons.
But what's easy here is that I have ten tables.
I need to join the query.
I can easily join them, right?
Secondly, maintaining the transactional property.
I need to handle the transactional property.
Transactional property means such a property that I can easily manage because there's one database with
ten tables.
So transactional property means if I need to insert into ten tables from table one to table ten, I
can do it with this property.
Suppose if there's a failure while updating table eight, then all of them will be updated, meaning
either all succeed or none succeed.
This is such a property.
So this easiness is there.
And this easiness for this part is complicated.
If I have three databases, suppose.
Suppose I have three databases.
So what are the challenges?
Here I can do a local transaction.
This has a local transaction.
Right.
So here I can maintain such a property.
Here I can maintain such a property here I can maintain such a property of the database.
But if I receive an order that touches all three databases, suppose it touches this one, this one
and this one, the database of service one, the database of service two and the database of service
three.
But can I have one common property.
Right.
Because such a property works on a particular database, right?
I can apply such a property to all the tables there.
But now my transaction is spanning over distributed databases.
Right.
So this is a challenge.
And who solves this challenge?
The saga pattern did.
Right.
The second thing is query join.
Here I have ten tables together.
Now suppose here table nine to table five here.
Table six to table eight here.
Table nine to table ten.
Now I need to join table six and table ten.
But these are in different domains.
How will I join them.
So I faced a bit of difficulty in joining.
And who solved it CRS did.
All right.
So I will tell you two things.
And this saga is very important.
Understand it well I will explain with examples and spend some time on it.
Okay, so now I am switching to the database for each individual service and I will tell you why it
is necessary from the interview perspective, even for the database.
For service.
So now here we have a little understanding that each service has its own database.
Okay.
And there is an agreement that no service can query another's database here.
Service two cannot query Service Three's database.
No, this is wrong if it needs any data from here.
If it needs any data from DB three, then it will tell S3 to invoke an API and tell me the related data.
Then it will return it and then.
It will use it, but no service can touch the database of any other service.
That would be wrong.
All right.
Here.
Now, what is the benefit?
Suppose this is using a relational database.
This is using no square.
MongoDB.
And these are using something else okay.
This means suppose this is using SQL.
This is using Postgres.
So everyone can use their database according to their needs.
And whenever it needs to make any modifications to its database, all it has to worry about is itself
that there is no impact on it from S2 or S3, and there is no need to ask anyone because it is its own
database, only it accesses it.
Okay, so the second thing is that maintenance has become a bit easier.
Okay, I can maintain my database well myself.
Okay.
The third benefit suppose a lot of data is coming into this DB, then I can scale this DB alone.
If there is not much traffic here, there is no entry in the database, then I don't need to scale it
that much.
So I can scale the DB of a particular service alone so that it can handle more transactions.
It can handle it can store more data.
Okay.
So you will see here that scaling has become easy.
But there are disadvantages to and I told you about two disadvantages that here the advantages were
to join the share query and how the transactional property will be.
So now we know that to maintain the transactional property to vary the saga of course, let's first
go to the saga.
Now I am telling you about the saga which is important.
Please understand it carefully.
Okay, so now why was there a need for the saga?
Because I have three boxes.
Assume that in this there is.
Table one.
Table two.
Table three.
Table four.
Table five.
Table six.
Okay.
I did not have a transaction to place an order.
Place an order.
So assume this is the order.
This is the order DB.
This is the inventory db.
This is some payment db.
So whenever an order is placed and I receive its payment you will see here.
So I will have to update this DB.
This DB will also need to update the inventory.
The order will also need to be updated.
The payment will also need to be updated because the payment has also arrived.
But assume if it happened that I updated this here I got one order.
Inserted the order row.
Order row.
Successfully created inventory.
Also successfully created in inventory.
I updated the inventory but it failed while recording the payment.
Now here.
What does this property say?
That if all succeed, all success or none?
Either successfully placed in all tables or not at all, it should roll back.
So now where will I roll back from?
This is it's local acid.
Local transaction is also maintaining its local transaction.
Okay.
If here it fails in T4, assume it needs to update in t3 T4.
If it fails in T4 then it would roll back T3 as well.
But now here we are talking about multiple DBS.
If this fails then how will it roll back this roll?
How will it roll back?
That's where comes the saga.
Here comes the saga.
All right, so now what does saga mean?
Sequence of local transactions.
What does it mean?
Sequence of local.
Transactions.
Okay, so now what it says here is that here?
All right.
Service one.
Service two.
Service three.
Okay.
Each has its own DB.
Assume now what happens here in saga.
They publish an event.
Anything happens.
Assume I have one order placement transaction.
So here it was in the order service.
So it updated its DB and published an event here.
An event was published here.
It published an event let's say order event.
So now what was here one inventory service.
What it will do is listen to this event that yes it has succeeded.
Now I need to update my DB so it will update its DB here and publish an event here one.
That the inventory has been updated.
Okay, so now as it heard the event and did its work.
Assume it failed while making the payment.
While recording the payment, it failed.
Okay, so now what it will do?
It will send a compensation event.
So now it will send one event a failure event.
Now it is listening to this failure event inventory said okay payment has failed.
Meaning I need to reverse everything now.
So the transaction it stored, it will reverse it.
Then it will also do a compensation event.
Or you can say a failure event.
The order service will listen to it and the transaction it recorded it will roll it back.
Okay.
Understood.
It's a sequence of event sequence of local transactions.
So this was one local transaction.
Local transaction, local transaction.
But I converted it into a sequence okay.
So saga is of two types choreography and orchestration.
What happens in orchestration and choreography?
These are.
Service one.
Service two.
Service three.
Here I have an event block.
Event.
Message event.
So now what is here?
If any traffic came to me, service one processed it, did it here and send the event.
Here I have the event.
So what is S2 doing?
It is listening to that event and will work on it.
And then what will it do?
If S2 completes its work?
It will publish the event.
What is S3 doing?
It is listening to those events right and will do its work based on that event.
If anything fails, it will also publish the event.
Assuming why is there a Q2?
Why is this a success?
Q why is this a failure?
So it will put it in the failure queue.
So if S2 is listening, okay, S3 has failed, then it will roll back itself and then it will also publish
that it has failed.
S1 will listen to it and will also roll back itself in a courier.
Everyone is listening to the event and doing their work, whereas in an orchestrator there is an orchestrator.
Sitting here there is a new component S1, s2, S3.
Here there is a drawback.
Here there is a drawback that there is a circular.
You can call it circular or you can call it a cycle dependency circular.
You can call it a cycle dependency can form.
That S1 sent an event to S2, S2 sent it to s1.
Then S1 gave an event to s2, s2 to s1.
So in this way a cycle can form.
So in an orchestrator this cycle dependency is removed.
Now here what is there is that orchestration is the one who will call S1, right?
And based on this, the reply from S1 that it was successful here.
Based on that it will call S2, right.
The update from S2 will call S3.
If S3 fails, then the orchestrator will make sure that it will roll back S2.
If S2 fails, it will make sure that it will call S1 to do the rollback here.
Understand what we were doing, that everyone was maintaining their state with each other through events.
Here an orchestrator has come, so here the orchestrator is managing S1 update H2h3.
If it fails it will tell s2 t2.
Now roll back.
Okay, so here comes the orchestrator.
We implement cigar in two ways choreography and orchestrator.
Now I'll tell you an interview question as an example that can be asked okay.
So you need to be prepared.
Assume I have one user, for example person A.
Person A needs to make a payment to person B.
So here a payment needs to be made.
Meaning if person A has to pay person B, I assume it's ₹10.
Okay, so you use Paytm different UPI not UPI you use ATM, use phone P, use GP or something like that
in that you have a balance.
You can keep your balance correct.
All right.
So now what happens here?
₹10 will be deducted from your balance and will be received by person B.
Now if I need to store this how will I store it in microservices?
Here I can create two components.
One will be your balance.
Which stores your balance, showing how much balance you have so far.
How much balance amount is there so far in rupees and assume you have ₹100 overall in this and here
I can create one service payment.
So what does this do?
The job of payment is to record the payment.
Person A has made a payment to person B, so it will record that person A paid person B ₹10.
This date, meaning it will store a type of transaction in its database that this payment was made.
This person paid this much on this date.
So now what is the challenge here?
The microservices challenge.
So it will be.
Okay.
Now I initiated the payment here.
Initiated the payment here okay.
So first assume where it will go.
This is payment.
This is balance Here.
I have ₹100.
I received a request.
That person A makes payments to person B of ₹10.
So first it will check if it has ₹10 in balance.
So the request will first go to the balance.
So what will it do here?
It has ₹10 and it will deduct it from here.
-₹10.
How much does it have now?
₹90.
It updated its database.
This database got updated?
Yes.
Okay.
From ₹100.
Now it will have ₹90.
Now it's done.
Now it went that the balance got deleted here.
And record the payment now while recording the payment, it failed.
It failed.
Meaning there is no history of whether you made the payment or not.
So now what will you do?
The balance got deducted.
Now what will you do?
How will you resolve this issue?
So pick any architecture of microservices in high level design.
This scenario will come up and they can ask you.
Hear you.
What will you do?
I will make use of saga.
Here.
The payment failed.
Payment will publish an event.
Something like a failure event.
The balance might be listening.
So this event?
Write choreography.
What will it do?
Okay.
The event failed for a particular transaction.
Let's assume this was a transaction.
Right?
So it's a transaction.
One failed something of ₹10.
Complete detail.
So now what did it do?
Okay.
What did the balance component see.
Oh it failed.
I had deducted it.
Now what will it do?
It will do a compensation transaction.
It will reverse it.
So it will add ₹10 back.
It will make it ₹100 again to the balance.
Okay, well, saga is used and they can ask you this.
All right.
Understood, guys.
Saga is very important.
And the last microservices pattern I am covering is.
See?
KCRW's.
Okay, now what does it say?
It says command.
Query.
Request.
Segregation.
What is there in the command?
Create.
Update.
Delete here in the query.
What is there?
Select.
It divides this.
Now why is this needed?
Why do we need it.
What was the other disadvantage on the microservices database per service?
If I have to join in the middle of a query, how will I do it here?
If I have two databases, one for service one and one for service two, I have table one here and table
two there.
Can I join them?
No, because s one can never directly query.
So what will I do here?
Here I will create a separate view a separate view that I am calling a separate view.
So all the create.
Update and delete operations will be done in their respective databases.
Create.
Update.
Delete.
But all the read operations will be in a new database, which we call the new DB view.
Let's assume this is orders.
This is inventory.
So let's say this is a common or history common view.
So now what happens is that a query will be here.
And it will have data from table one and table two.
Right.
So you can join here.
So in the course this is common query request segregation command means this is a command.
Query means this is a query.
We separated them by creating a second database that is only for read.
And that has all the data from table one and table two from different databases.
But now there's a challenge of how it will keep itself updated if something is created here.
It should also be updated, right?
So here there can be an event.
Whenever something is created, updated or deleted here, it will publish an event.
And this one will listen to the event and perform the same operation on itself.
Similarly, in T2, in the T2 database, whenever something is created, updated or deleted, it will
also publish an event and this will listen to the event and similar changes will come here in the common
history table, which is made for reading.
So here we can use events.
What else can we use?
DB triggers, DB triggers.
Or you can write a procedure that whenever create, update or delete happens a procedure will run that
will make similar changes here.
So did you understand the meaning of ACF?
So what I wanted to tell you from this common design pattern is that the straggler is very, very,
very important in microservices.
And you should know about Cqrs.
Yes.
If you need to join multiple things.
And when we do questions, there will be scenarios where we will need queries and we will look at it
in more detail then.
Okay, so I'm telling you there are many patterns in microservices design patterns.
I've only told you the important ones.
And as we keep solving questions, you will keep learning more patterns and solve them accordingly.
Please understand saga and straggler.
Well, if you have any doubts, do ask me again but make sure the concept is clear.
Okay guys, I hope you liked this.
Please share and subscribe.
I really need your support.
Have a nice day.
Bye guys.

--- Scale from ZERO to MILLION User (English Dub) | Better with 1.25x playback speed ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept no coding.
So today if you are watching this video it's the fifth video in the series.
And this video is very important which is like scaling from zero users to 1 million users.
So how can we do this here?
I'll cover many concepts of high level design, for example CD n horizontal and vertical scaling catching
load balancer.
Right.
And where are these used?
Okay.
So we have to set up all these things in such a way that our system can scale so much.
That if more than 1 million requests come, it can handle them well okay.
So let's start without any wastage of time and jump into this creation okay.
So here you will see that first of all I have divided this into steps into nine points Okay.
So here it's divided into nine points on how I can take it from 0 to 1 million.
What things I can do.
Okay, so I'll explain the 11 steps with a diagram of what changes have been made.
So the first is a single server.
Okay.
So what do we understand by a single server?
A single server means whenever we started a project in college, let's assume when we are launching
a new project ourselves, let's assume there are zero users.
Okay.
So all we have is my client.
Client could be your web or mobile.
And here let's assume what can happen.
Is the client directly with the server.
With the server okay.
Now the server is here we have one application server and application plus db.
Both are in the same server.
Okay, so we don't have a separate server.
My entire application is running here.
Okay.
The DB is also here.
I host my DB inside the server.
Okay.
So this is a very basic project which we have all done during college as part of wherever we did college
projects, kind of in line with this only.
So this is simple.
We've made a single server okay.
Now what's the second step.
Application and DB server separation okay.
Now we have to scale.
So first of all what do we have to correct.
First we have to correct that.
We have to separate this.
So we remove it from here.
And we first of all have to bring a new layer.
Let's call this layer as.
Mid-tier layer in which we say.
In which it will host the application server.
Here, you'll only run business logic.
Okay?
And this application server will be in contact with.
My DB.
This is my db.
This is you can see that it's dark out here.
And DB tier.
Okay so this is my DB server.
So why do we need this here.
Because let's assume I want to grow the application and DB independently.
So I have to remove the dependency okay.
And the most different thing is that to remove the dependency what is it to make both independent.
What is it.
Both should have separate servers okay.
So now here both can grow independently.
So my second point has been achieved okay.
What's the third.
Bringing the load balancer plus multiple app servers okay.
If I want to take more traffic then what do I have to do?
I have to change this model a bit.
How?
Here.
Now I'm changing in the mid tier.
Okay.
What am I changing in the mid tier here.
Now.
Let's remove this one.
Here.
Now we've brought that.
My client was.
Web and mobile.
Okay.
Now here I have multiple app servers.
Okay.
Multiple application servers.
So here it became app.
Server one.
App.
Server two.
Like this app server in this mid tier.
Okay.
But now the client cannot talk directly to all of these.
So in between I need a layer which is a load balancer.
So the job of the load balancer is that the client will only talk to the load balancer.
And the load balancer will decide to whom to forward the request.
Okay.
So the load balancer brings one more thing with it.
It brings security.
It brings privacy because the load balancer and the application servers talk on private IPS.
Okay.
So here the client on the internet cannot call my application server directly.
Okay.
So the load balancer and application server talk on private IPS.
So it brings one layer of security.
Okay.
And as the name clarifies the load balancer has to equally divide all the traffic coming to different
applications.
And why did we need multiple application servers.
Because you know if you have only one application server.
And let's assume there's one endpoint which let's assume get P.
So how many requests can it entertain every minute.
It's limited.
Let's assume it can take 1000 requests in one minute.
After that it will start dropping requests right.
So to increase that we need more app servers.
So here that's why we need different app servers.
So great.
We've done this to load balancer plus multiple app servers in the next step.
What am I increasing database replication okay now I'm improving the database with database replication.
What does database replication mean?
I want to bring here.
Now I'm improving the database here okay.
Now.
How am I improving it with database replication.
Now we all know what database replication is.
The master slave concept comes in okay I have a master DB.
I also have a slave db slave DB and here there can be multiple slave DB's.
There can be more than one slave DB and they replicate themselves with each other.
Okay, so now I bring my master slave DB and here all the requests, right?
Okay, all the write requests will go to my Masters create update and all my read will be from the slave.
Okay.
It will be from my slave.
So here what happens is that sometimes let's assume one node is bad, one db.
Let's assume there's a failure db.
So now I don't need to worry.
If a DB fails, my entire application won't go down because one db is there.
I have replicas okay, so the other node of db will be up and it will already handle the requests here.
If my master DB fails, then anyone slave DB gets promoted to become the master DB.
Okay, so the master DB takes care of the write operations, slave DB takes care of the read operations
and there can be many slaves.
Okay, so here it's a bit better that we've started to encounter failure as well.
What if the DB fails because similarly the situation is with the application server.
Also that if an application fails, what will happen?
The whole system will go down?
No.
Now we have multiple application servers.
So the load balancer will transfer the request to those not sending requests to the application that's
down.
It will only divide them among those that are up.
So now similarly we have done this in the DB also very good so far.
We've handled the failure use cases as well that if any system fails is still up okay.
So with data replication and multiple app servers we've done this now to improve performance a bit.
What do we do?
Use of cache.
So see where we'll apply the cache.
Okay.
So here you see that to apply the cache whenever our application server talks with the DB every time.
So consider this kind of a network call.
Okay.
So it takes a lot of time.
This is an expensive call.
Okay.
Whenever the application needs data from a DB to read or write DB operations are very expensive.
If you want to save it then before going to the DB, we should always check in the cache whether the
data is there or not.
So here the application can first call the cache.
So here if the cache has the data it would be considered a cache hit.
If the cache doesn't have the data, then the application has to go to the DB, which is called a cache
miss.
Okay, so now whatever request comes, my application server will first go to the cache.
If it gets the data from the cache, it will fulfill the request right there without needing to go to
the DB.
Otherwise, I will have to go to the DB and then write it to the cache and then I will return it.
So here what happened with the cache is that my performance increased here I saved DB calls.
So here by introducing the cache I increase the performance a bit.
Now let's consider what a CDN is.
So CDN is very very important okay.
So first of all what is a CDN.
Ken means content delivery.
Network.
And before going to CN, let me tell you one more thing.
When the application sets up the cache, it defines TTL here, which is known as time to live.
So this time to live could be 48 hours, 24 hours, seven days depending upon the application requirement.
Once this time to live expires, say after 24 hours, whatever data is inside it will be purged for
which the time to live is set up.
So then whenever fresh data comes, it will miss.
From here it won't be in the cache, and then the application will have to put it back in the cache
with a new TTL.
So now I was telling you about CDN content delivery network.
So content delivery network is also so understand here.
CDN.
Does catching.
But all those.
Who do catching.
Are not Christian.
What does it mean?
CN does catching, but not everyone who does catching is CN.
Okay, here I am catching.
Let's assume this is Readis.
It is catching.
Radius is not CN.
Okay, CN also is catching capability but CN also has some other functionality.
Okay.
So that's it.
It is known that CN does catching.
But all who do catching are not CN.
Now let's assume what CN is used for.
Then I'll tell you where it will be used.
Let's assume your application is working well in India.
Now your users are starting to come from outside, right?
USA, Switzerland, France.
They are coming from everywhere.
So let's assume this is your data center.
This is your data center.
Where?
Inside India.
Okay, so I have one user here in India.
I have one user here in the USA.
Okay.
One here in Japan.
One is here somewhere.
Let's assume in another country.
Considered as Saudi Arabia.
So now whenever they request your website, see India will access it quickly because the data centers
travelling time for request response is less.
Let's assume.
It's taking one millisecond.
Okay.
Saudi Arabia is a bit far.
How much time will it take for its users?
Let's say it takes two milliseconds.
Okay.
The USA is even further to go to the data center.
So let's say it takes three milliseconds.
Let's assume the traffic from Japan is coming.
It has a bit more routing request and response.
It is taking four milliseconds.
So now see, the user located near your data center is getting a quick response.
But your users are all over the world.
Okay.
When they are all over the world.
See there is a latency issue.
So who solves this problem?
CDN.
So now let's use a similar use case.
So now I have a db.
This is my original server.
Okay so now I had one user in the USA one user let's assume in France.
One user was mine in Japan.
And one user is mine in India.
And this server is mine in India.
So now what will I do here with my CD and notes.
Okay, so this is my CD.
And note this is a CD and note I can put many CD in notes.
So for example, in this case I am putting my CD and note in every country.
Okay, here is my CD and note.
I am thinking not to put it for India because my server is here, but it's always better to put a CD
in node.
Okay, so now what does CN do?
CN does catching catching of static data.
Okay.
What are static data.
Your HTML pages okay.
Then all our you can say videos okay videos HTML pages CSS files.
These are all static data that do not change.
So such information that changes very infrequently.
We put it inside the CDN.
Okay.
Now whenever a request comes it will first go to the nearest CDN.
Okay, if it comes from the USA now the USA doesn't need to go to the original server in India.
It will first go to the CDN node and ask if it has the website.
Let's assume and how it is stored here is by URL okay.
And there could be more methods.
So let's assume this URL has already been accessed.
So if it has been accessed it will get the response from here.
And similarly for France it will get the response from its nearest CDN.
Japan will get the response from there.
India will get it from its own.
But let's assume if there is no data, okay, then what will this CDN do?
It will ask its nearest CDN if it has the data.
Okay, if this one doesn't have it, then it will go to the original DB.
Okay.
Understood.
So what does CDN do?
It first goes to the CDN to see if the user's users request.
If the static data is already there, it will be served from there.
Because your original server, when you set up the CDN, you stored all the static data everywhere.
Okay, all locations have the data stored in the CDN.
Now, whenever a request comes, if the data is in the CDN, that is known as a cache hit.
Again, if it is not there, it first goes to the neighbor CDN to check if it has the data.
If not, then it goes to the original server.
So here what happened is that our performance increased, security increased because now it is not coming
directly to the server.
Let's assume there are many types of attacks like DDoS attacks.
Okay.
So we can enable our CDN with advanced technology.
There are many features you can add to CDN, so we can make it intelligent to see if it is a bot or
not.
So before coming to our original server, CDN will take action okay.
And so one load decreased on our DB and performance increased.
Security increased.
Okay.
So here you have cost cutting because you won't need many DB servers.
So did you understand the CDN concept what it is.
So where can you place this CDN.
What will be its original position.
The client can go to CDN here.
Before even going to the load balancer the client application goes to the CDN.
And if the CDN has the data, it will return it to the client.
If not, the CDN will check with the neighbor CDN.
If it doesn't have it either, then the request will hit the original server.
As I told you.
Now there are data centers.
Let's assume the data center where my application and the DB server were.
Let's assume in India.
Okay, so I can have more data centers in different locations.
All right.
So the client We'll make a request.
To whom?
To the load balancer.
Now, here I have different data centers.
Okay.
So different.
And the load balancer will send to different data centers.
In the same one data center.
What was there in one data center there were different application servers.
So it's the same here.
We haven't changed anything.
But here I also have App Server one.
App server.
All right.
And how it used to work with our DB.
Same thing.
Nothing has changed.
But now what has happened here I have this master DB.
And this is the slave DB.
Okay.
This replicates with it and here fulfills the write and read operation respectively.
So similarly here two.
Now this is let's say this is in India.
This is let's say in the USA.
So we can have different ones like this.
So what can the load balancer do.
The load balancer depends upon the geo request okay.
So what it can do is send it to multiple nearby data centers okay.
So now here we can have multiple advantages.
Let's say my data center in India goes down.
So what will the load balancer do.
It will fulfill all the traffic from the US data center okay DB replication happens here okay.
Between the India and US data centers.
So here you see that multiple data centers.
You understood that there's an India data center a USA data center.
So in this way the load on one data center is reduced.
Correct.
And here we already had a CDN.
Here we have a CD n and here our application talks to the cache also.
Okay so here I make it application talks to the cache also.
Application talks to the cache.
So data centers are clear to you that multiple data centers have been created.
Now its messaging queue.
Now messaging queue is a very interesting thing guys.
So now in messaging queue you first say that I'm already taking so many requests okay I can fulfill
millions of transactions with this.
Why do I need messaging?
Now?
Let me tell you why messaging is needed because it's a very important thing.
So this is called messaging queue.
Messaging queue.
So now like there are different types of messaging queues.
There's RabbitMQ there's RabbitMQ.
There's Kafka okay there's Kafka.
So what happens in this is that we have one producer.
Okay.
What does the producer do?
One.
What we are saying RabbitMQ.
Kafka.
So this is called messaging queue.
Inside the messaging queue it pushes a message.
And here there are different subscribers.
Okay.
So why is it called a queue.
It's not exactly called a queue.
It's called a topic.
Okay.
But now I'll explain to you.
So in this queue the message went message message two and subscriber subscribe to it okay.
Data has come.
Now I have to do something.
Okay.
So what does it do?
It brings the asynchronous nature in our code base.
Okay.
Async nature.
For example, for example we have the heaviest load operation to send notifications okay.
We have to send web send mail.
We have to notify the user okay.
So all these operations can be async.
So what do we do in this async two.
And okay.
And if not, what if the message wasn't sent?
Wait, you send again?
If not, send, send again.
So keep sending until it reaches.
So will you hold the request thread until then?
No, that would be very would very very bad design.
So what is in the messaging queue?
Put the message to now here.
As soon as the subscriber reads the message it will do its work.
If it fails then there is something called queue queue also that it will again queue and then you can
correct the failure and pick it back from that queue queue.
Okay, so you can do retry also.
So now let me tell you some terminology of messaging queue okay.
In messaging queue there is one exchange.
So here the producer.
First this is my messaging queue I'm taking an example of RabbitMQ inside this.
First there is an exchange.
This is called What?
Exchange.
Okay, then after this, here I have q.
This is Q one.
This is q two.
In this way there can be many Q's.
And this exchange and q have one binding.
So here both are linked by binding.
So these are called binding.
Binding okay.
And here what happens is the producer sends to the exchange here it sends the routing key.
Okay.
So first the producer sends a routing key with the message to the exchange.
The exchange looks at the routing key and compares it with the binding.
It decides which queue to send the data to and depending upon the queue which subscriber is listening
to that queue, it will notify the subscriber to and this was being done by the subscriber.
Okay, so now there are different ways to do exchange and queue.
So what is the first exchange.
And here I have a queue.
So now the first one I have is direct.
Okay indirect.
What happens is the routing key that came the routing key that came from the producer.
They match equals to equals to binding key.
What is the binding key.
The binding key is which binding key is there between the exchange and the queue.
If these two are equal then okay this routing key came.
This is the binding key of this queue.
So I will send it directly.
So the queue whose binding key matched it will send to that.
So the routing key came for example one and its binding key was one.
Its key was two.
So the routing key came one.
It matched right.
So it will send the data to it.
The second one is our fan.
Out.
In, fan out.
What happens is that this exchange I have, it sends to all the queues sends to Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4 sends
the same message to all.
Now, okay, whichever subscriber is linked to them, whoever wants to do it, whoever wants to ignore
it, will ignore it.
But fan, what does the exchange say?
It will send the message to everyone.
The third one is topic okay.
Now what happens inside the topic?
This exchange?
Okay.
It can send the message to more than one queue.
So okay so here you can say that direct is a little similar.
Direct comparison doesn't happen.
So you can say that some wild this is called wild comparison.
So let's say something like this comes up that if something matches up then I have to send it inside
this and this okay.
If it happens in this case then I have to send it inside this.
So it means you can send inside more than one Q in the topic.
And here direct comparison doesn't happen.
Exactly.
I'm saying the correct word.
Exact comparison doesn't happen.
A wild comparison happens that okay, after this, whatever happens, send it to.
Okay.
So now what did I say here that messaging Q brings and sync nature.
So here the application here I have to add one messaging Q okay, here I will need one messaging Q.
All right.
If they need to input any data, they can put it on the messaging queue which the subscribers of the
other application can read up.
Correct.
So what happened here is that an asynchronous nature came.
So with the asynchronous nature we can process the request fast.
Correct.
Now the most important is database scaling.
The last one is database scaling.
Now understand well what database scaling is.
It is of two types.
Vertical.
And horizontal.
What do we say in vertical.
How does our database seem right now.
All right.
In the database what do we have now.
We have a master slave.
All right I have one master DB.
And one slave DB.
All right.
So vertical scaling says that increase the capacity of our already existing DB servers meaning increase
CPU capability Ram capability.
All right.
So that when more requests come, my CPU and Ram can take care of it.
But what is the disadvantage of this?
There is always a limit that after one point you cannot increase Ram.
After one point, you cannot increase CPU.
All right.
So that's vertical.
It has some limits.
And what is horizontal say as the name suggests you can add more nodes.
All right.
We have to increase the capability of the same database node.
We add many nodes many database nodes instead of one.
Now there are two.
So I made it four.
All right.
So horizontal increase it says that vertical increases.
Now what is the implementation of horizontal increases.
What is its implementation.
Sharding is no sharding.
Sharding is also of two types horizontal.
And vertical.
All right.
So first of all what is sharding.
So in horizontal sharding what happens is suppose you have one table right.
It has rows.
Right.
How many rows are there?
Suppose row one, two, three.
Let's say there are 1000 rows.
So what does horizontal sharding say?
Original sharding says that.
Divide it into multiple tables.
All right.
Suppose in T1 what did I keep.
From row one to row 100.
What did I keep in T2.
From row 101 to row 200.
Or you can say up to 500 here and from 501 to 1000 here.
So now see I have divided it row wise.
And what happens here.
All right.
Understood.
First is horizontal sharding.
Horizontal sharding is row wise different rows.
Data is kept in different tables, meaning up to 100 is kept here or up to 500.
After that, I kept it in another table.
All right.
So what am I saying?
There is one name column.
So whoever's name is from A to D, they will all go to T one in shard one.
So t one sharding happened.
Shard.
Shard t one short t2 t2 t1 two minute.
Shard is divided.
So what am I saying?
Whoever's name is up to P, they will go to t1 shard after p from Q to Z.
Where will they go to shard T2 in this sharding.
Got it.
All right so here what is vertical sharding.
Original sharding is understood.
It is divided row wise.
And we can decide any logic to implement on which basis we have to put data in which shard.
So whenever a request comes between S and p it will go to that particular shard.
Vertical sharding.
What does vertical sharding say column wise and table.
All right.
Suppose that there are ten columns in it from C1 to C10.
So now I have sharded it and divided it into two tables from C1 to C5.
I put it here and from C6 to C10 I put it here.
All right.
So it is divided column wise.
All right.
So generally horizontal sharding is better but it also depends.
Vertical sharding can also be done if it fulfills your requirement.
But it is divided column wise.
But it contains all the rows.
So now what is the problem in sharding here.
All right.
There are drawbacks also.
What is the drawback.
Suppose for example what is the drawback of sharding.
Suppose that's whose name is very much.
All will go to shard t one.
So short T one will fill up very quickly.
So I will have to shard it again.
I will have to shard sort it into smaller parts that I am dividing 81 so this is 81 short one, then
21, and this is 81, another short two.
All right.
And this can be sharded more.
So you understood sharding can also form a tree from tree one that first I divided it.
Then I can divide it again.
So how much sharding can be done.
So this is a drawback.
And what is the other drawback.
Suppose now the rows are divided right.
So now sometimes I might need to join them.
So now I won't be able to join.
All right.
So what do we say in this.
We can solve it by denormalization denormalize it so that you can avoid the join.
All right.
And this problem of forming a tree how to shard it.
Again we solve it with consistent hashing.
You must have heard the name right.
Consistent hashing.
So this itself is a very big topic I will cover it in the next step.
But I hope you understood sharding, how sharding is done.
All right.
And with this, with the last database scaling in nine steps, you have made a scalable system from
zero to millions of users.
I hope it would be like you understood well how to approach it.
And what is important in this is that Ken is very, very important.
All right.
Here why messaging is very important.
Database scaling is very important.
Cash is important.
Database replication master slave is very important.
You see every important topic is covered in this.
You have to read it.
So if guys you have even a little doubt feel free to ping me.
All right.
You can discuss it more, but I hope this would be helpful for you in the interview because most commonly
asked questions are here.
And.
Okay guys thank you and have a good day.
Bye.

--- Consistent Hashing (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed ---

Hello guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
So today's topic is consistent hashing.
If you've watched the previous video scale zero to million users, we discussed a topic there called
Horizontal sharding.
Today we'll understand how consistent hashing helps in sharding and where it is used.
Right.
So let's go ahead without wasting any time.
So what does consistent hashing do first of all.
We'll see what hashing is.
All right.
In a minute.
We'll first see what hashing is.
What is the.
Use of consistent hashing.
Why did we need consistent hashing.
And then we will see how it works.
After that, we'll see how it solves the problem and how it works.
First of all, what is hashing?
Why did we need hashing?
Right.
So we all know what hashing is.
We use hash tables right.
They have hash function.
So how does it work here we have a key.
For example the key is my name like Shreyansh.
All right.
So this is one of our hash functions.
There will be a hash function.
Right.
So what will that hash function do.
It takes this key as input.
So what did it do here.
Shreyansh.
So this hash function gives me what is called an arbitrary length.
Value meaning it can be of any length, small or large.
This hash function gives an arbitrary length value and a fixed length input.
So let's assume the hash function gives me one, 4321.
For example, this number could be 6070 anything.
So I'm just taking some random example.
If I apply a hash function to my name internally, it generates a value for me.
Let it be 14321.
Or for simplicity, let's say it gives me just a small number, let's say 20.
This is the hash number generated for me.
And here we use a technique called.
Hashing.
What is mod hashing.
We have a hash table with a fixed size right.
It has a fixed size let's say 0 to 5.
So what is its size?
Six.
All right.
So what do we say here.
We take mod n six so that whatever data we insert, it goes into a specific index because that's the
size I have.
This is called mod hashing.
So you understand what hashing is, right?
In hashing there is a hash function that converts an arbitrary length value into a fixed length value.
Then there is a technique called mod hashing.
What happens in it is that whatever size is in our hash table, so that whatever value is there, I
have to store it in this table.
So I mod it.
By its size.
The size of the hash table.
Right.
So now assume whatever I got its index came as two.
So this value will be stored at index two.
So this is how hashing works.
Clear.
Now next let's see what is the problem if what is the problem.
With this hashing.
What is the issue and why did we need consistent hashing?
Right.
If this thing my size, if it is fixed.
If my size is fixed modulo six.
If this is fixed.
Then hashing is perfectly fine.
No issues with it, but the problem arises when the size is not fixed, for example.
All right.
For example, how is it used?
One is our load balancing.
For application servers.
And the other is horizontal sharding.
All right.
What happens.
And this is load balancing for application servers where I have a load balancer and application servers.
App server one.
App server two.
Like this.
And assume I currently have three servers, right?
So if the load balancer is using a hashing technique, for example it is using.
Mod hashing right.
So what is this?
This is the load balancer.
If it is using some hashing technique here like.
Mode.
And currently how many servers do I have 123.
So it is using mod three.
And here I am getting a request and I need to send this request to which server.
Right.
Because what is the job of a load balancer?
The job of a load balancer is to equally divide the traffic to my app servers, so that no single app
server gets overloaded, right?
If I'm getting ten requests, it should divide them into three, 3 or 4 so that the load remains equal.
That is the work of load balancing.
All right.
So whenever I get a request currently I have three servers.
So it will use mod hashing.
Whatever request I have it will take the key get its hash function and mod three, then send it to one
of them.
In sharding.
What happens in horizontal sharding is we create multiple DB servers.
All right.
For example, there is a huge DB with 100 rows.
So we can divide it into two DB's with 50 rows each.
So now which value will go into which db that is decided by for example a to p.
Will go here in db one Q to j will go in DB two.
So this is horizontal sharding.
But here the same issue arises as in load balancing.
Here assume if all names come like this more, then this db will fill up quickly and this one will remain
empty.
So the load is not equally divided, right?
So here too we need consistent hashing so that whatever data we have that should be equally divided
among all the databases, right?
If more is coming, then it should decide in such a way that it gets equally divided among.
All right.
So here we have the same problem in load balancing and horizontal sharding.
Then the traffic whatever traffic is coming the servers we have here application servers in horizontal
sharding DB servers, how to divide it equally so that the load on our servers remains constant meaning
equal.
Right.
All right.
So now, for example, what I was explaining to you, assume my name came Shreyansh.
I applied a hash function and the hash was mod three because currently I have three servers.
Right.
This could be app servers here.
This could be DB servers here, right.
For example, let's talk from the horizontal sharding perspective.
This data of mine is stored in node one.
Shreyansh is stored in DB.
All right.
Now assume the next name came for example Rahul.
All right same applied mode three on Rahul for example it will come as node one.
And this came as node two.
So Rahul is stored here.
For example another came Shivam.
Applied mode three on Shivam.
And this came as node three.
So here Shivam is stored.
Alright, everything is fine so far.
But what I told you was that the hashing technique is only.
Valid.
And you can see it more applicable when the size is fixed.
The server size is fixed.
But here is it fixed.
Node one.
Node two.
Node three are not fixed, right?
Because these are servers and according to our need this server can increase or this server can decrease.
Right.
So the first use cases if these increase.
Alright.
If they increase then what will happen is now these become.
Not one not two not three.
And now I have one more node for this is newly added.
Newly added node.
All right.
So now what will happen to my load balancers function?
Whatever key I have, whatever key is coming.
Mode four will now be mode four right here.
It will be mode four, not mode three.
So now the modulus has changed.
So definitely for example, if the name Shreyansh comes again right.
My expectation was that when Shreyansh comes I will run this method mod three.
So I will know which db my data is stored in, right.
But now an extra node has been added.
So if shreyansh comes now F of Shreyansh mode four, is it still guaranteed that node one will not give
it?
Okay, first it was mode three and now it's mode four.
So definitely the chances are that the value now is.
For example I have n2.
So it will request to Shreyansh to search for shreyansh data.
But where was my data.
though it was in node one.
Here it was in node one, so now it won't get the data.
So what do I have to do?
Rebalancing.
This is called rebalancing.
So what I have to do is bring all the data from here to there after rebalancing okay.
The data has to be brought from here to there.
Similarly, it might happen that Rahul's chain, which was earlier on node two, now moves to node three.
Here Rahul moves now.
So even now I have to rebalance.
Why?
Because earlier Rahul was on node two.
Now where has he come?
Node three.
So I have to rebalance Rahul's data from node two to node three.
This is called rebalancing.
Okay, so here for example here you took three simple examples in DB.
How much value is there.
Maybe millions of transactions right.
Millions of DB entries.
Okay, so assume that in this rebalancing, if any node comes or gets deleted, then the mod I have
will change.
And because of this I will have to rebalance for the millions of DB entries.
Okay, the entries that were earlier in node one okay, their whatever entries used to come.
Let's say for example id, I have an id in the db.
The user requested something with that ID and we know that we give everything an ID, so I know whenever
this ID comes I will apply a hash function on it.
So it used to go to node one earlier when it was three.
But now I have added a new node.
So now on the same id I will apply mode four.
So it is going to node one, going to node two.
But the data is in node one.
So here I have to rebalance all the IDs.
In this way all the IDs could be thousands could be millions.
I have to rebalance them.
Bring them to the new node in node two.
So this makes hashing not applicable.
And you can see it's not a good approach where our nodes are dynamic in load balancing where we have
to send traffic.
The app is dynamic.
The app can go down, the app can crash, or a new app can come in horizontal sharding.
We can do another DB.
Okay, in this we can say from A to F, then from G to P, and then here from Q to Z okay.
And we can further divide also okay.
And here we can also remove.
So these are dynamic.
So when it's dynamic we can't apply normal hashing.
Why can't we apply it.
I have told you because the modular changes.
So what is the solution.
The solution is consistent hashing.
What does consistent hashing solve?
Consistent hashing solves that whenever a new node.
Node one, node two, node three I had these okay.
So it has keys from key one to key ten.
It has some keys.
It has some keys okay.
They are storing some data.
So what is the motto of consistent hashing that either no node comes.
Or one is removed.
In both these cases this rebalancing.
Is to minimize it.
How much to minimize it?
One.
Raise to the power n percentage of total number of keys.
Total number of keys only.
This much rebalancing should happen.
That's a formula.
And this number of nodes.
Okay.
However many active number of nodes there are.
So one raise to the power n percentage of total number of keys.
Okay.
This much percent of keys should be rebalanced.
That's it.
So that's what consistent hashing can achieve okay.
If you have to rebalance only this many keys here, you would have to rebalance millions of DB entries.
Right.
In normal hashing okay.
That is not good.
Consistent hashing says that you can achieve this good.
This much rebalancing is good 1%, whatever percent it is.
If you have to rebalance that much of the total number of keys.
Okay.
So the purpose of consistent hashing is that if a node is removed, okay.
In that case, or if a new node comes.
In that case, the thing that had to be rebalanced, that should be minimized.
Okay.
That is the only motto.
And how much to minimize one raise to the power n percent.
This much of total key is on average.
If you are rebalancing this many keys, that is good, but not more than this.
Now you understand what is the use of consistent hashing?
What is the problem with hashing?
What is the use of consistent hashing?
Now let's see how does consistent hashing work?
Okay, so how does consistent hashing work in consistent hashing?
First of all, it takes a virtual.
Ring okay.
This ring is you can consider a circular queue.
Okay so there is a virtual ring.
So now I have taken a virtual link here for which size.
For the total size Okay.
It starts from zero, ends at 11, and then back to zero.
Okay.
So now first of all, what does it do?
It removes the dependency.
Now here what I have done is the servers.
The DB servers or application servers, whatever servers you take okay.
What does it do to them on this ring?
Sets them randomly okay.
So for example I am taking the same mod hashing for the server.
So in this I have 12 as the size.
So first let's assume I have three servers.
Server one, server two, server three okay.
I have assumed server one is hashed hash of server one mode.
So let's assume it came to this position for example.
It came to my server one.
Okay.
This is.
Server one.
Okay, second I hashed server two.
For example, my server two came here.
I'm just taking randomly.
We place it here.
Okay.
Here I placed server two.
Okay.
Then I took out the hash of server three.
Hash of server three.
Mod 12.
Let's assume it comes somewhere at 11.
Okay so here I take.
For example.
It became my server three.
So here I took three servers extracted their values in such a way in the ring which.
Value my servers came on okay.
This is just random.
Okay.
And for this example I took them at equally distant places.
But I will tell you the problem with this approach, the problem with this approach.
But for example, let's say they are at equally distant places, the hash function I used in this way.
So now assume I have keys coming.
Now I have keys coming.
Key one.
Key two.
Key three.
Key four.
Key five six.
Now I have also taken out the hash in this hash of key one mod 12.
So assume key one came here.
Now for key one let me take a different color.
Let's say key one came here.
Okay.
Key two came here.
Key three came here.
Key four came here.
Key five came here.
Key six came here.
Key seven came here.
For example, randomly this hash I am using only the mod hashing technique, but on a virtual ring I
have extracted the values of all.
Okay, so now which server will fulfill which key or handle the request?
Now what I have to do is move clockwise.
Okay.
What I have to do is move clockwise.
I will move clockwise from here okay.
So from key to key to who will handle key one here.
Move clockwise.
Which server did it meet first.
Server one.
So who will handle key one.
Server one from key two I am moving clockwise.
Who did I meet?
Server one.
So what is server one?
Handling server one is handling my key.
One handling key.
Similarly who will handle key seven?
It will move clockwise.
This key seven or call it value.
It will go to S2 to server two.
Where will key five go to S2 clockwise.
So S2 is storing key five.
Key seven.
Okay.
Similarly, where will T6 go to S3?
Where will T3 go to S3?
Where will Qi four go to S3?
Okay, so S3 will fulfill three Ki six, Ki three, Ki four.
Okay, understood.
Which servers will fulfill the keys?
In this way?
It is decided by going clockwise.
All right.
Now let's assume I'm adding here.
Okay.
Now how is this solution being solved.
So you will have to observe here.
Now assume addition.
Addition of server.
If I add a server what happens.
So now assume within this example.
All right.
Within this example currently I had three servers.
Now here what I am doing is adding one more server.
Okay, I'm adding one more server.
And that would be my.
Let's see.
I'm adding a server on a pipe.
I added a new server.
All right.
This is my.
Four.
Okay.
S1 s2 s3 s4.
So now see here which rebalancing needs to be done right now.
See if any change happened to K1k2.
No change happened.
All right.
Here is still pointing clockwise to the same K six.
K3 K4.
Still no change happened.
All right.
What was coming in S3 was k six k3 k4 k.
K3 k4.
No change happened on s1, k1, k2 no change happened.
All right.
Here on S2, k5 K7 was coming, but now only K5 is coming.
Who will handle K7?
It will move clockwise to S4.
G7 will come to S4.
All right, so here I didn't have to rebalance everything.
Just a limited number of keys had to be rebalanced.
So it reduces the number of keys I have to rebalance.
This reduces that number.
Right.
And similarly if I do deletion deletion of server.
If I delete for example in this case okay I delete seven.
Assuming the server with seven is removed.
So in this case what will happen.
Now the K5 was okay.
This will move clockwise.
Now which server will it go to.
This will also be received by the next server S3.
So K fire was handled by S2.
Now who is handling k S3.
I.
All right.
So you understood how consistent hashing works.
Now I'll tell you its disadvantage.
What is the disadvantage of content hashing here.
So a big disadvantage of consistent hashing is and I'll tell you in the film how to solve it.
So here we had the diagram of consistent hashing.
Let's take it one more time.
Okay.
Here we take the diagram of consistent hashing.
Now see here in consistent hashing earlier.
What did you decide?
I told you that for now we took these servers at equally distant points.
But what is hashing more hashing.
What if this happens?
That this is my server, right?
My server two comes here.
And my server three comes here.
Okay, so this is my.
Server one.
This is my server two.
This is my server three.
And now the key is coming in.
Assume these are key one.
Key two.
Q3.
Q4 Q5 Q6 so who will handle all these?
It will go clockwise to S1.
All right.
They will move clockwise right.
So we have to move clockwise.
So it will move clockwise to S1.
So.
S1 all will go to S1.
And all SNL also full front base one.
Here two no server was found in a clockwise manner S1 so here it failed, meaning the consistent hashing
was supposed to divide our load equally, but now it didn't divide equally, so all the pressure came
on S1.
So here it says to create.
Virtual objects.
Now I'll tell you about virtual objects.
There's nothing in virtual objects.
What it says is to replicate.
The server at different points.
Okay.
So what does it mean to replicate.
Let me erase this once.
Here what it says is.
To replicate and create virtual objects that these servers should place themselves at different points,
like the server was at one two.
So place it randomly at other points too.
For example, I placed it at eight.
And here I placed it at 11 okay.
Similarly I'll place server two at different points.
For example, I place server two here at six.
Placed it at ten.
All right.
And similarly I randomly placed server three at one.
And placed it at nine okay.
So that's creating virtual objects meaning giving them virtual points that were originally derived from
the hash function and then placing them virtually at other points too.
Like s one came at two after hashing.
So I'll say besides two, I'll randomly take out two more positions.
2 or 3 depends, and I'll do it there too.
I took out one at eight, one at 11.
So in a way I virtually replicated it.
If at two, eight, 811 I'll say my server one is there.
Okay.
And at these points, server three is there at three, six and ten.
Server two is there.
So now when my keys come assume key one, key two.
Key three.
Key four.
Key five okay.
Key six.
Key seven.
So now see here this will go this server one will take care of it at the same point.
Key one.
This server one.
So not server one.
Server three is that color.
So on server three which ones are there.
Key one.
Key two.
All right then which key do I have.
Key six.
It will move clockwise.
It got this color server s2.
S2 got key six.
Then key seven is on the same.
So key seven.
Now see is getting equally divided right by virtualizing.
Key five will go.
It got this yellow one.
What was it.
Server one.
So server one got key T5.
T4 is on the same all right.
And T3 is on yellow.
This yellow is server one.
So now see here how it got equally divided when I increase the distribution of servers.
Okay.
That is nothing but replicating the server at different points.
Whatever points initially came from the servers replicate them at different points that yes, these
points also have the same server.
All right.
They're all virtual.
Okay.
And you understood.
And how many replicas do we need to make?
You might ask, how many replicas should I make of the server?
Okay.
We need to make as many replicas as needed to achieve the balancing of one raise power.
And percent is of total.
How much do I need to rebalance when I achieve this percentage?
So it means I have done the distribution.
I hope this is clear.
Okay.
And where is it used?
I told you that this is our virtual where we have different nodes.
All right.
Whether it's an application node or a DB node.
And we have to divide the traffic to divide the traffic equally.
Okay.
And this is dynamic.
Then our normal hashing is not used.
Then our consistent hashing is used.
Alright.
So here this mode keeps changing.
Then we have to use consistent hashing, whether it's horizontal sharding, load balancing or any other
use case where we have to divide the traffic equally among servers and these servers are dynamic.
If it's static, then consistent hashing is not needed.
That will work if it's always node three, but if it becomes 4 or 2 then it's a problem, then hashing
will not work okay, because we'll have to rebalance the nodes.
Alright.
It might be that all the data is here.
If next time, after rebalancing the value of the server that was deleted changes or I'll have to put
all the data in it first.
I hope you got it guys and you liked it.
If you liked it guys, please share it with your connections and comment.
If you have any doubts, feel free to ask me.
Feel free to ping me on LinkedIn or ping me anywhere.
And I've already shared the telegram link in our about section, okay.
And I'll also give it in the description, so feel free to join there also and you can message there
too.
I am replying as soon as possible guys to that is a very important topic and I hope it was understood
very well if somebody asked in the interview just.
Okay guys.
Okay, have a nice day.
Good night.

--- Design URL Shortening Service like TinyURL ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today the topic which we are going to discuss is Hld topic design URL shortener.
And as I got a lot of requests that I should start, uh, teaching in English.
So this is my first video teaching video in English.
If you guys like it, please, uh, comment down that my future videos should also be in English or
if you want it to be in Hindi.
Okay, so with that being said, let's, uh, start the today's topic and today's topic is designed
URL shortener.
This is a very, very important question from system design perspective.
And if you are new to the system design, then you can expect this question to be asked in many, uh,
top product based companies or any companies.
Right.
So this is the very famous question.
So first understand what is URL shortener.
So here if you see that I have pasted my.
Playlist URL right?
So this is my playlist URL and this is the shortest version shortened version when I.
So uh, LinkedIn has created it.
So whenever you create a post on LinkedIn, right, and you provide any URL in your post, LinkedIn
will automatically shorten it, right?
So if you see if I click on it, right.
So I click on it.
So it will open my playlist.
And if I also click on this shortened version also this also opens the same thing.
So we need to design this how we can generate this URL.
Right.
So it looks very straightforward right.
But there are lot of follow up questions which can come in which we have to answer.
Right.
So first we need to see how this works.
So So this is on there and you might have heard of tiny URL, right?
So apart from LinkedIn so tiny URL is also famous one.
So it provide an API post API which you can give a URL long URL in.
In this case this is the long URL tiny URL will convert internally, uh, the short URL and store it
in its db table.
So this is this DB table.
It will store uh, something like this that this is the short URL.
This is the short URL and respective long URL.
Right.
So whatever the long URL you have given and whatever the short URL it has computed, it will return
it.
So let's say it will store the short URL.
And whatever the long URL you have here is like uh, https YouTube.
Some playlist like this.
Right.
So this is the post request and another would be a Get request.
So whenever a Get will come with short URL now so tiny URL will look into its database and see okay,
this is the short URL come in and this is the long URL it will return.
So we have to build this tiny URL kind of service like LinkedIn is doing.
And we have to generate this URL.
Right.
So understood the question what we have to design okay.
Now let's go to the first phase of the design.
So first phase is requirement analysis.
Requirement.
Analysis.
So whenever this question has been come in the interview your first question should be what should be
the length of this.
Right.
This is just a domain like LinkedIn.com or Tinyurl.com.
But the major thing is this part.
Spot.
So we need to know like how short URL you want.
So.
Right.
So first question is in this case how short.
Our URL should be.
Right.
How short our URL should be.
So let's say in this case interviewer will say as much as you can write as much short as we can.
Okay.
So still we are not much clear because here if you see how much character LinkedIn uses 1234, five,
six, seven eight characters, it uses it.
But interviewer said that as much short as we can, so can we use only two also three also we don't
know, right?
We have to identify.
So how to identify it.
So second step is let's understand the traffic.
With that we can try to find it out.
So let's say understand the traffic, what should be the traffic per day.
So let's say interviewer says that 10 million URL traffic you will get per day.
Okay so about 10 million URL traffic per day.
What does convert it to an ear.
So 365 days right.
So 365 days into ten URL per year.
Right.
And let's say I want 3 million.
And let's say I want this my service to be supported for 100 years.
So it's 100 years I should not face any issue.
So okay, so how many URLs I should be supported?
365 3650 into 100 million URL okay, so how many this is million has six zeros and this is three.
So total nine zeros.
So it converts to 365 billion.
URL.
Earl.
So I should be able to generate 365 billion URLs in 100 years.
Okay, now let's see what all the characters we can use.
So here LinkedIn has uses all small A to Z capital A to Z.
So what all characters we can use.
So mostly interviewer will say that you can use 0 to 9 A to Z and capital A to Z.
So how many?
This is 1026 characters, 26 characters total, 62 characters we can use.
Okay, so so in 62 characters, how many URL we can build?
Let's say if we have only one character, right?
So what are the different ways 62 ways.
Right.
So if you have two fields right.
So how many combination 62 raised to power two.
If we have three fields like three characters we can use, how many different combination we can have
62 raised to power three, right?
So we need to reach till that characters.
How many characters we can use.
Once we cross this.
Right.
So I have already done the pre computation.
So 62 raised to power 662 raised to power six is around 56 billion.
It's something 56 something and 62 raised to power.
Seven comes 3.5 trillion.
Sum around this right.
So definitely we.
So how many URLs we need to support?
365 billions.
So definitely we can't use six because it is only 56,000,000,062 raised to power seven.
We can and definitely you can use calculator to multiply and come up with this value.
It's allowed right.
So definitely we have to use seven characters right.
So now we get to know like 12345677 characters we can use here okay.
So now we have clarify one requirement that how many characters we needed.
Now the question is next question how to generate this hash value.
So this is nothing but a generally a hash value right.
So how to generate this hash value.
So we have two methods.
Use a hash function.
Or use base 62 encoding.
Right.
Let's see both how we can use it.
So what are the hash function we have.
Right.
So we have two hash function is one is MD5 and another is She won.
Right.
So this will generate some number AX9FB something like this.
And this will also generate the same thing.
So can we use this.
Right.
So before understanding can we use this first see that how big length it will generate.
Right.
So let's say you have given a long URL.
So I have given a long URL.
And now you wanted to generate a hash function.
And what md5.
So MD5 is 128 bit hash function 128 bit math means 16 bytes right.
And you know right in hexadecimal we have 16 bases.
16.
So means we need four bits 1248.
Right.
1111.
It's 16 right.
So it's a nibble.
We call it nibble.
So in 8 in 1 byte equals to eight bit.
We can have two hex digits, right?
Because a hexa digit is base 16 and base 16 can be comes into only 41248.
Four bits only.
Right.
So in 16 byte how many will come is 32 hex digits.
So MD5 will generate a character length of 32 characters.
It will generate.
But what is our requirement?
Only seven.
This is the minimum we wanted, right?
Our question is as short as possible.
As short as possible.
We find out okay we need seven length and MD5 will generate 32.
And similarly Sha1 is I think 160 bit.
Right.
And it with the same thing.
It will generate a 40 character length 40 character length.
Right.
So it would be 20 byte and it will a 40 hexa digits.
So now you see that this MD5 and Sha one the length the hash function will generate more than seven
characters.
Definitely.
Right.
MD5 will generate 32 character and Sha one which is 20 bytes.
It will generate 40 hexa characters.
Right?
So what we have to do is we have to trim two seven.
Let's say it generated a as a, B, c, D943FF something something something till.
But we want only seven characters, so we'll pick 1234567.
So.
So we picked only seven and discarded everything.
So now this will create a problem because it might be a duplicate right.
So let's say for certain URL uh it differs at the later side.
But starting seven digit is same right?
So then there will be lot of lot of collision.
So with this hash function MD5 and Sha one there will be lot of collision.
That's why we cannot use hash function.
Now you totally clear why we don't use hash function.
Because the length of the characters they will generate is more than seven in our case.
So we have to trim it to the first seven characters.
And if we trim it to the first seven characters, it will create a problem of collision.
Let's understand our now next base 62.
How does it work?
Right.
So there are some issues with the base 62 itself.
I will tell you why.
And but before that let's in a couple of minutes let's understand how base 62 works first.
Right.
So you know right.
Any decimal number can be converted to any base.
Right.
So in this case we are converting it to base Is 62 y 62 because we are allowed to use 62 characters
like 0 to 9, small A to Z, capital A to Z.
So starting from 0 to 61, so 0 to 9 is nine.
And then this is ten C like this 1112 like similarly till 61.
Right.
So totally 62 characters we can use.
So how you can convert decimal to base.
We know right.
We need some number.
And we can use a like this divide.
So 62 into 16 is 992 which is eight remainder.
And then the remainder is 16.
And we go from bottom to up.
16 is what now 16 is uh in this case base 62.
So C is 12 L, c, d e f, g 13, 1415, 16.
So g.
So this is G.
So it would be g8 right.
So this is the representation of 1000 in base 62.
So now what we get to know from this okay we can generate a number.
But first we need some ID right.
Which we can convert and get a unique ID right.
So what is the problem now.
What is the problem.
First is we need an ID generator.
I will tell you the issue with this.
Second problem is now as we have seen for 1000 it only generates two length character.
But what is our issue.
What we wanted seven digit.
Right.
So length.
Could be different.
And how to solve it I will tell you both.
So let's first with ID generator.
So this is very important.
This is very simple actually I will tell you later.
But ID generator is the main part.
So let's say I will use.
A normal db.
ID column.
It's an autoincrement right 123456.
Like this.
So we can say that we can use this ID right.
We can use this ID so definitely we can use.
But what is the problem with using this.
So first problem is we are going to hit 10 million URLs per day right.
So this much big data are you going to put in a one DB table.
One DB server.
No.
Right.
So definitely we need more servers right.
In a distributed computing think about from the distributed computing.
So if some request going over here some request going over here.
So synchronization is one problem that they both should not generate a same ID, right?
And also one server is not possible because if you use only one server it has two issue, right?
First of all, your DB capacity should be huge.
Plus it's a single point of failure.
If this is gone, how you will generate the unique identifier your system will gone.
So definitely we have to be a distributed DB servers.
And then we have a synchronization problem.
Like we should not generate a similar ID.
So there are different approaches to solve this right.
So what are that first approach.
First approach is we have ticket server.
So ticket server is already available.
So what it has is it has the same issue actually.
So ticket server is uses one DB.
It's a centralized.
Eyes.
You can say that auto increment, uh, service.
So let's say you have a different application in a distributed server like so they will all hit this
ticket server.
You have app one.
You this is your another app two.
App three.
So all are distributed across over the network.
Just think from that.
So now we are saying that everyone is not relying on their DB.
We are not saying that everyone is relying on their DB.
Right.
Because we know what is the issue.
So we are saying that we use a ticket server which is a centralized auto increment server.
It will also do the same thing.
It will increment it one by one by one.
But it's a centralized for all.
So again the same issue.
Think what if this fails.
If this fails everybody will which are relying on this will get impacted.
So this is not much used.
Second is snowflake.
Right.
This is based on timestamp.
Right.
So it has certain format.
So it has one bit saved.
So it has certain format like this is for timestamp.
And then it has machine ID and then it has sequence number right.
So this can be used.
But to be honest I generally prefer the zookeeper part.
So definitely so we have two options.
Now I will tell you this option how we can use it.
But snowflake is also very easy to implement right.
Because it doesn't depend upon the server.
It depends upon the timestamp.
Right.
So one bit it just reserve it.
So in the 41 bit it put the timestamp right.
Then you have machine ID okay.
What is the unique machine ID.
Every system has a machine ID, right?
Then you can put a machine ID and then a sequence number.
Right.
So I think it has certain bits reserved for the sequence number.
I so do check that snowflake.
What is the bits allocated for each one.
So most probably let's say if it is four bits for sequence number.
So after the sequence number across the full limit has been reached it will again start from 0123.
Like this.
Right.
But what makes sure that unique is timestamp right.
So let's say if two requests come at a same timestamp then it has taken care of like machine ID would
be different right?
So definitely at same uh same machine.
If it is coming it will take care of the like which one it is generating first.
So you got it right.
What is time?
Uh, snowflake, this is Twitter.
Uh, Twitter uses the snowflake, and it is mostly based on the timestamp.
So zookeeper is the one which is most preferred in this use case, our shortened URL.
So zookeeper is definition of zookeeper is.
It is a distributed.
So distributed application.
Can.
Coordinate with each other.
Reliably.
This is Apache.
Uh, this is Apache's, uh, product zookeeper.
So its definition say it says that it's a distributed application.
So we have a distributed application.
They can coordinate with each other reliably, right.
And perform certain tasks.
So now how we can use Zookeeper here is so we have different services application in a distributed environment.
Definitely we have different services.
Let's say this is tiny URL server one tiny URL server.
Two.
So we have different N3N app server.
Uh three.
App server four.
So now we are using zookeeper.
So in this we know right.
How many.
So let's say here what is the number we got.
Like how many different combinations we have is 3.5 trillion.
3.5 trillion combinations.
We have let's say 0 to 0 12345 till 3.5 trillion.
We can go.
Correct.
So out of seven bits.
So we have seven characters right.
1234567.
Right.
And each character we have 62 bits.
So 62 raised to power 73. 5 trillion.
That's how we come up with that right.
So we can have this many combinations we can go for.
So what zookeeper do?
Is it create a range.
So this is range one.
This is range two.
Similarly it divides and range n and it keeps that okay zero to let's say zero to 0 to 1 million range
one.
It will keep 1 million to 2 million.
Range two will keep on.
Similarly let's say uh certain.
So it would be like this.
And let's say 11 million to 12 million certain range X will keep.
Right.
So you got it.
So here in the zookeeper it will divide into a range wise.
And for each range we have an ID stored right.
This let's say one 1 million we can divide.
So similarly we can also divide five 5,000,010 10 million that depend upon the zookeeper logic.
Now.
Whenever the request come in for a particular worker thread, it will always goes to its particular
range.
So let's say this is a worker thread one.
This is a worker thread one this is worker thread two.
So worker thread one is allotted range one.
Worker thread two allotted range two.
Similarly a worker this one allotted some rain.
So each thread's allotted some different range and they will use the number between.
It's only.
So if this gets filled up let's say it reaches this thread has this worker has used all its combination.
Then it what it will do is zookeeper will pick the next 1 million which is unused.
So let's say till now we have used till 12 million let's say.
So after that it will pick another million, 13 million to 14 million for this one.
Right.
So we have 3.4 trillion combinations, right?
So even if, let's say 1 million, 2 million is not used, let's say nobody no traffic is coming over
here.
It's not used.
Doesn't matter.
1 million is nothing for us.
We have a 3.5 trillion, and we have only need to support €3.65 billion, right?
So this is certain advantage in the zookeeper or disadvantage.
But we have since we have a long, uh, combinations possible, we can take this trade off that even
if 1 or 2 million will go away, we it's unused.
It would be okay.
Right?
It will always pick the new range and a lot fill it with that.
So every worker thread which will come it will use its range only.
So this way we are guaranteed that we are going to generate a unique ID in distributed environment.
Unique ID in distributed environment.
This itself is a very good question.
How you can generate a unique ID in distributed environment, right.
So we have to come up with from simple.
First we have one DB.
What is the issue?
We cannot scale much.
If we have multiple DB servers.
Then there is a problem of synchronization so that we don't generate a same ID right.
And it would be slow also.
Then second is ticket server here in the different data stores different data centers.
We have a centralized autoincrement service.
But that is also not scalable.
It has a single point of failure.
Then we have a snowflake.
This is a good solution which is depend upon the timestamp right timestamp machine code and the sequence
number right.
Then there is something called zookeeper, which is a kind of very popular.
And the how we going to use is we going to use it like whatever the range we have, we divide into smaller
ranges and each range has been allotted to a particular server.
Right.
And we have a range defined on it.
Right.
If any range got filled up it will pick a new range.
Understood.
This is how we define a unique ID.
Generate a unique ID.
Okay now we have solved one issue like okay unique ID we are able to generate.
So we know right.
Another issue.
So one thing is resolved.
This is resolved right.
Now the second was length could be different.
Okay.
So here in this case now we see right 16 let's say ID generated is 16 right.
So we can generate an ID from 0 to 3.5 trillion.
Right.
So let's say it is 16 base 62.
What it will become 16 only which is nothing but a G, right.
So now in this case this is not a seven character, but we need a at least minimum seven character length.
So we do a padding.
We do a padding.
So let's say you might have seen, uh, padding like double equals to at uh k y.
After that you have seen double equals to.
This is nothing but padding.
You can pad it to make it a seven character unique.
Right.
So question is can it is possible that this base 62 will go more than seven characters right.
No.
Because till 3.5 trillion.
Uh, so what is the maximum value we can generate?
1234567.
Maximum value we can generate is z right.
0 to 9 A to z capital A to z.
So this is the maximum value 62 right 62 6262 possible combinations.
Right.
Or you can say that z z z z z z z.
If you convert it to decimal you will get 3.5 trillion only right some value you will get 3556 something
something something 3.5 trillion.
So you can use till this one if if you let's say it is last is eight some value.
If you use it greater than this let's say nine, it will generate an eight length.
So we have a range so zero to here.
So we are making sure that we are using between this range we are picking number between this range.
So it will always give me a base 62 of less than seven less than equals to seven.
Right.
And if it is seven we are good.
If it is less than we good we do a padding okay.
So.
Understood guys.
So how this base 62 gonna work.
And now let's comes to its design.
Design is simple.
I hope you have seen my previous video of scale zero to million users.
So this design is very very simple.
So this is just a you can say you have a user right.
So now in this case what will happen is a user is going to.
Go to a load balancer.
Write in load balancer.
We have a different tiny URLs servers.
Tiny URL server 123.
This is let's say data center one.
Similarly we can have different data centers.
So load balancer is the one which takes care of data centers.
And for each data center we gonna have a cache.
And the DB.
So here we will have a relational DB.
Because we don't have much combination.
It's a very one table we can have is like id.
Short URL.
Long URL.
Right.
So short URL we will give.
We will put long URL and with the help of zookeeper we will generate a this thing.
So application will talk to our zookeeper.
So zookeeper will generate a unique ID and that they're gonna use it stored in the DB.
Right.
So this is a very basic, uh, this thing we don't need CN here and much thing.
So this is very simple.
So this is not uh interviewer might not be interested.
This is very simple.
Interviewer might be interested till this point how you can generate a short URL.
So I hope this clarifies a lot why we don't go with hash, why we go with the base 62 and with base
62.
What is, uh, the biggest problem is generating a unique number.
and what are the different ways to generate a unique number?
Right.
And once the unique number is generated, how do we make sure that if the base 62 is generated is small,
then we do a padding and can it goes more than seven character.
Not possible because uh, out of seven characters, the possible combination we can have is 3.5 trillion.
Some number right 62 into 62 into 62, seven times 62 raised to power seven.
So whatever the number will give is we use that range only.
Right.
So it always, uh, base 62 will be less than equals to seven with this within this range.
Right.
And for the lesser one we will do a padding.
And now you know how to use zookeeper.
So zookeeper is not a unique ID generator right.
Remember it is not a unique ID generator.
We it's a uh, you can say an application which helps, uh, application over the distributed network
to coordinate with each other.
So here different applications are coordinating with each other.
And we have just we can put different logic inside zookeeper that okay it taking care of different range
and allotting a different range to different servers.
Right.
So this is all about this design based design URL shortener.
Right.
And I hope you understood now how this get generated.
Right.
And what are the issues with it, how to deal with it.
And if you like this, uh, content guys, and if you like this video in English, please let me know
in the comment so that I would be aware that I need to continue in English, or from the next video.
I have to make it in Hindi only.
So please share your thoughts and I hope you enjoyed it.
It would be useful and have a good day guys!
And if this got getting asked in the interview.
So okay, have a nice day guys.
Bye.

--- Back-Of-The-Envelope Estimation for System Design Interview ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today I am going to tell you about the back of the envelope estimation which you are going to use.
Like every time you gonna solve any high level design question right.
In an interview or as a practice you have to face the back of the envelope estimation.
And that's why today in this, uh, topic, I will cover the estimation of Facebook, right, as a sample,
as a practice.
And also I'll tell you, like, uh, step by step, how to come up with this kind of estimation.
Okay.
So let's, uh, proceed further.
But before doing an estimation of Facebook, I will tell you, like what is back of the envelope estimation.
First, those who don't know.
So I'll tell you what is this.
So let's consider this.
Let's if we directly jump into the question, let's say I say that design Facebook.
So I just simply say that, okay, I will take a load balancer.
Then here I will have CDN.
Right.
Then I have uh, multiple processors or servers.
Then here I will have cash.
Then I will have some data base.
Let's say this is how.
So this is just a randomly I'm taking.
But what I'm trying to say is that if you directly jump into the design part, then interviewer can
ask, do you really need load balancer?
Do you really need CDN?
How many servers you gonna need?
What should be the capacity right?
Do you really need cash?
And if yes, what?
What is the size of storage size?
So if you are not able to answer all of this, even if your design is correct, you are in a trouble,
right?
Because it will give an impression that you started the design without considering the system constraints.
Right.
So let's that's where the back of the envelope estimation comes into the picture.
Key feature of a load balancer design.
Yes I am gonna use a load balancer.
But what if there is not much traffic.
There is no need of load balancer itself, right?
There is no need of taking a server itself.
Then it's a wastage of resource.
So that's where the back of the envelope estimation comes into the picture.
So that we are not under utilized for over overlay system.
Otherwise it would be a wastage of resources.
Right.
So now you know right.
What is the use.
What is the need of back or back of the envelope estimation.
So this was the need.
So we need why we need this right.
So it drives our decision.
For system design.
Right.
So in a simple way, if I can say what is the back of the envelope estimation.
So back of the envelope estimation drive our decision for system design load balancer.
It is driving my decision based on some numbers which we have come up with.
Right.
You got it.
Okay.
So now with this one I will tell you about some considerations first.
Right.
So before starting the estimation of Facebook.
So I want to tell you something about basics of back of the envelope estimation so that you are totally
in line with me when I'm proceeding with this values.
So couple of consideration I am taking.
First of all these are the rough numbers rough?
Or you can say that t shirt size.
T shirt size estimation.
So it's a rough estimation or a t shirt size estimation means it is a high level estimation, not exact.
It's a not accurate.
So whatever the numbers I'm going to come up with estimation of Facebook.
It is not actually met with the real Facebook right.
It's just an estimation.
Second thing is do not spend much time, do not spend much time.
Why?
Because see 97 or 98% of the time interviewer is expecting that whatever the design you have to make,
that should be scalable.
And whenever you have to make a scalable design, you have to come up with CD and cash, right?
Multiple servers, load balancer, all these things has to come.
Right.
So this number which we are estimation number, which we are just coming up, That is just like, yes,
you know these things, right?
But it is not impacting your design in real world.
It is impacting it drives our decision.
But in interview and interview it is impacting, uh, your decision most probably 95% of the time.
No, because, uh, interviewer is expecting a scalable design and scalable design.
The chances are we use all these things, right?
So whatever the number, you are gonna come up with you again, do the same designing.
So that's what I am saying.
Do not spend much time.
Most of the chances it gonna not much impact your design in the interview.
Right.
So and also last thing last consideration keep the assumption value simple.
Keep the assumption value.
Simple don't take 275 million users, right?
Always take into multiplication of ten or it is easy to compute.
10 million.
100 million, right?
Thousand.
Like this?
500.
But never take 435, which is very difficult to compute or remember also.
Right?
So keep the assumptions value simple and which will really help you in computation.
Right.
So now you know what is the need of back of the envelope estimation and what is the definition.
Also and few consideration which is important.
Now before starting the question again last some cheat sheet I want to give you two cheat sheet.
So everything is in multiple of three zeros.
So three zeros.
So traffic.
Storage.
So you're both important.
This is very, very important.
Always before starting of the high level design interview, keep this in hand with you.
That three zero is 1000.
Storage is KB.
Six zero is just a thousand million billion trillion I think quadrillion something right.
So 6090 12 zero 15 0 or 3 333 plus three plus three plus three plus three.
Similarly KB are bigger than KB is MB, then GB, then TB, then PB, petabyte terabyte, gigabyte,
megabytes and kilobytes.
Right.
So keep this in handy.
Key thing zero value change right?
Also, one more thing is whenever you design something right, you have to come up, deal with the data.
Either you have to deal with character, you have to deal with some values long or double, and you
have to deal with images, videos, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
So always keep that okay.
Character I am assuming it would be two bytes right.
So you know right.
Characters are of two type like Ascii and Unicode.
So Ascii is one byte and Unicode is two byte.
So I am assuming for my like what if the if I have to deal with the characters, I will consider this
a two byte long and double.
I will consider it as eight byte and image average image size.
I would say that I will consider as a let's say 300 KB, right?
So these are the basic assumptions which you have to do.
So this is very important.
And this is also gonna important like based upon the question which we are getting for the designing.
Okay.
So till now, everything looks good, right?
Simple.
Now, second thing is, when we are saying that back of the envelope estimation and we know that what
we have to estimate, we have to estimate the numbers.
Like how many servers.
Right.
How what is the storage capacity.
So generally I compute three things from the back of the envelope.
Number of servers.
We gonna need right Ram and the storage capacity.
So there could be a lot more things which we have to come up with.
But generally I always compute these three things.
Right.
Which are very, very important resources in our system design.
Right.
So this is just my way.
Like what I compute.
But yes, definitely you can refer.
And like what all other things we can compute, right.
So you can definitely add.
So I come up with this three.
And last is trade off based on the cap theorem I defined.
Like what is the trade off I am doing for my system.
I will tell you about this thing.
So these three values I compute.
Then I tell the trade off and then I go with the design.
So with this information now I am going to start.
And one before this thing I have one more important thing I want to tell you.
So this is very important cheat sheet right.
So just take remember this formula X let's say million x million user.
Into take anything m b y m b.
If I am doing a storage calculation so what it will become it will become x y this x Y.
Multiply and million has.
How many zeros?
Million has six.
Zero.
MB has again six zero.
So how many zero.
It will become 1212 is TB so it x y TB for example.
Another example I can take is let's say I have 5 million user.
Into two kilobyte.
So what the what is the storage capacity I need.
Uh million has six zeros.
Kilo KB has three.
So it become nine.
So nine is uh GB so it be GB.
And what is the value five to the 1010 GB storage I needed.
Right.
If 5 million user require use two kb then ten GB I gonna need it.
So remember this formula right now based on the number of zeros, we will find out like, okay, what
is the storage capacity for that zero.
And we will just multiply it.
Now I am going to start this over estimation of Facebook.
Right.
I will tell you step by step right.
If there is any doubt ping me on the comment section guys.
Estimate of Facebook.
And you already know some very basics about the, uh, back of the envelope.
Consideration to this basic cheat sheet, right.
Or a formula which is going to help you a lot, or compute right back of the envelope.
Compute.
Right.
Or what important do not spend much time on this.
So let's start guys.
Because as I already told you, it's gonna not impact our design in the interview.
Right.
Okay.
So I am going with the estimate of Facebook now.
Right.
So always first is you have to come with a traffic go step by step traffic estimation.
So with the traffic estimation what we gonna have come up with is like so I am building a Facebook.
Right.
So here traffic estimation is let's say total user.
So always take into multiplication.
So I am assuming that total users of Facebook is 1 billion.
Right.
Then the second part in the traffic estimation is d a daily active users.
Right.
So daily active users considered is like uh, we can say that 25% of total users, right?
So 25% of total users, uh, this become 250 million.
Users.
Right.
So with this thing now traffic estimate.
Now, when we are saying daily active users or 250 million users.
So can we come up with an estimate like daily how many request query we can get.
Right.
So you know that in any system we have a read operation and write operation.
So we can say that let's say he is uh, every user is doing five read and two write operation.
So almost seven query now.
So we need to come up with like traffic estimation.
We are computing right.
So we have to come up with like what is the per second traffic we gonna get.
So currently we have the daily data.
So 250 million Users which are daily active users.
Giving us seven query right.
So these are per day.
So we have to divide it by seconds in a day.
So we you can compute it right.
So in one day so in one hour 60 into 60 into 24.
So this many seconds we have in a day.
So generally this come as ah you are like 86,400 something.
Generally this second comes up right.
So this many seconds.
So what I told is always do an assumption which is easy to remember.
And we can do an assumption in this right.
So always do some round off also.
So I am making a one lakh seconds right.
So with this what we are getting is we are getting.
18 k query per second.
So this is the traffic which we are estimating that per second I am going to get 18 k request.
So estimation.
Now the second part is storage assumption.
And assume every user is doing two posts two posts.
Right.
And each post is of you can say that we can come up with some characters.
Let's say each post is of 250 characters.
Right.
10% of the users.
Is uploading one image also.
it's possible right?
In the Facebook we can also upload a image also.
Right.
So this is the assumption which I am doing.
So every daily active users is doing two posts and each post is of 250 characters.
Right.
And also we are assuming that 10% of the daily active user is uploading one image and one image.
We have already known that it is of 300 kbps size.
This is the assumption which we have kept right?
Okay, so now let's start with this one.
First one post.
250 character.
And we I told you in the start itself that I am estimating that one character is two byte.
So how many bytes we gonna need 250 50 into two, 250 character into two bytes.
So one post I am going to need 500 bytes, right?
So for two post I am going to need 500 bytes into two.
So it's a 1000 byte.
Or you can say that one kilobyte.
Right.
So now we have to say that every uh do a doing two posts.
So how many daily active users we have in our system.
250 million users.
So 250 million.
Users doing two posts daily, one KB write two posts turned out to be one KB.
So how many memory can you tell me?
Million is six zero KB is three zero.
So total nine zero.
So nine zero is GB right?
First we write B and then we have 250 into one.
So it turned out to be 250 GB.
We gonna need it just for the post per day.
Right.
Now similarly what we have is we told that 10% of the user uploading one image.
Right.
So 10% of the users of daily active user.
10% is 25 million.
Users.
Right.
So what we are doing is 25 million users into one image or one image.
We have kept for 300 KB.
Can we compute it?
Six zero KB is three zero.
So total 9090 is again I think uh GB only.
GB 25 into 300.
So here 25 into 300 is 7500.
Right.
So can we simplify this one.
So we know that it's let's say it's a 7000 GB right.
So seven into 1000 GB.
So three zeros.
We are going to add more.
So after GB what is the next TB.
So it's around seven TB.
Or if you want to go at a higher level we can say that around eight TB just for taking a peek right.
Eight TB you got it right.
How we just how this cheat sheet is helping us.
So this is the storage capacity which we are coming up with for.
Image for post daily.
We gonna need 250 GB per day.
And for image we need eight TB per day.
And let's say we want to store the data for five years total 102 five days.
So we can estimate it around 2000 days.
Right.
So one day you gonna need that much data.
Right?
So now we can easily compute right.
How much data.
So 2000 into 250 GB for the post.
And for the image you're gonna need 2000.
And for each day you need eight terabyte.
Right.
So we can compute we can come up with this values.
And that would be our storage capacity, right?
So with this one you would get around 500 TB.
And this one you will get around 16 petabyte.
Right.
So this is my storage capacity for five years I'm gonna need it.
Right.
So if you see the real time Facebook it would be huge.
But this is how we are coming up with an estimation based upon this.
So now I have a traffic estimation I have a storage estimation.
Now the another main part we have to do is Ram estimation.
So now with Ram estimation what we can do is.
So let's do some assumption.
We can ask the interviewer.
Like we can say that for each.
User we are putting a cache like last five posts.
Last five posts.
We are putting into cash.
Right.
So this is what so we know post is 500 bytes.
Now we need five posts.
So five into five.
This will become 2500 bytes.
So now when we are saying for each daily active users right.
We are keeping last five posts.
So daily active users.
So we have around 250 million.
Daily active user.
Right.
So for each 250 million users we are putting five posts into the cache, which is nothing but a 2500
bytes.
Right.
So this 2500 bytes, can we do a simple round up estimate like around three KB.
Right.
So we can guess that 3000 bytes and then 3000 bytes.
We can say that three KB and this is 250 million.
Now we can come up with the memory space.
So three 250 million is six zero KB is three zero.
So definitely it's a GB right.
And two 5250 into three we can come up with I think it is 750 GB.
So 750 GB is required.
The memory space.
This is the memory space.
So for each user if last five posts I have to keep in memory then I need 750 GB memory.
So now here you can say that if one machine can hold 75 GB of data in memory.
Right.
Then how many machines you gonna need?
You're gonna need ten machines for caching.
Are you there?
The caching nodes will be present into this ten machines.
You got it.
Like, how much Ram you gonna need?
750 GB.
And to use this Ram, how many machines you gonna need it?
Right.
So based on this Ram, we can say that our latency, since we are going to use this Ram.
So you can give an estimation that latency is 95% of the time.
My request would be I would serve into 500 milliseconds.
Just come up with this number.
It will give an impression that yes, you take care of latency also, right.
So here just say that okay.
My latency is 95% of the time is 500 milliseconds, right?
Based.
So generally in the real world, I think it will consider, uh, like lot of more things to come up
with this number.
But for the estimation, I'm just saying you can put an estimation that 95% of the time, 500 milliseconds.
One request I will serve.
So now you know, right, you have 18 K uh, queries, 18 K requests per second.
Right.
And you can say that my one machine can have 50 threads, or you can say that one machine or one server,
I am saying okay, let's put a one server.
One server has let's say 50 threads okay.
Multiple threads.
Server one server has 50 thread.
Right.
And you can say that they can.
So in what we are saying is 500 milliseconds.
So one second has or two 500 milliseconds.
Right.
So any requests of 101 server can serve 100 requests per second.
500 milliseconds may ask request server.
So eight second though right in one second I can serve two requests.
And how many threads there are there.
50.
So 100 requests per second.
I can serve with the one server, but we have 18 requests per second.
So how many servers I am needed?
How many servers?
18 divided by 100.
So you need around 100 servers.
Application servers.
You need it, right?
So here, if you see that I have come up with this number, it might not be correct.
Right.
It's not matching to the exact this thing.
It would be very very far away.
But it's just a estimation like how we are coming up with this value.
So now we have come up with this three thing which we wanted to compute.
Uh, so here we are.
Right.
Number of servers is 180 servers I'm gonna use Ram is 750 GB and I'm going to use ten machine.
I'm going to put the cache node in ten machines.
And storage capacity is uh how much we have come up with.
So for five years it's around for post.
I'm going to use the 500 terabyte.
And for image it's going to be 16 petabyte right.
So these are the assumptions which I have come up with.
So based on this assumption.
Now the last part is trade off.
You know about cap theorem, right?
I have already made a video on the Cap theorem.
So this is like consistency.
This is availability.
So it's like this.
Right.
So it's like this not this.
This.
So this is consistency.
This is availability.
This is partition tolerance right.
So what does cap says that at a particular point of time you can only achieve two.
Either you can do CA or AP right here.
You can have CA here you can have CP or here you can have AP.
So either one of them you can have.
So in detail you can check the video.
So here based upon the uh requirement I would say that I would go with the availability and partition
tolerance I would drop.
So this is my trade off I would drop the consistency, right?
I don't.
So let's say I have a different data stores, but I would drop the consistency.
In this case I will keep the availability and partition tolerance.
So partition tolerance says that.
So there are different nodes right.
So DB node even it's a breakage.
Right.
There is a failure right.
There is a now become a partition.
Are you still are your system is still up or not.
Yes.
For Facebook this is the requirement.
Even if there is a breakage right in the system, right over the network.
If there is a breakage, my system should be able to take a traffic right and availability is right.
Even out of this two nodes, if one of the node is down, can we still serve system or not?
Yes, we should be still should be able to serve our system.
So these two are something for Facebook.
We can say that these are very much needed.
So this is my trade off.
You can discuss with the interviewer.
Right.
Does consistency matter or not.
Then you can tell the trade off.
So this interviewer will get to know okay you are aware of the cap theorem.
So you got it right.
This is little bit tricky.
You can say that but very simple also.
But we don't have to spend much time.
So this calculation today I went very slowly so that you observe like whatever I am trying to do right.
You are able to observe it like.
But once you are able to do some more practice with it, right, you should be able to come up with
this estimate numbers.
So that's why I say that it's a rough numbers, right.
And rough numbers should be very quick to come up with never spend.
So just never spend more than ten minutes on this.
So never spend more than ten minutes on this right?
Try to.
It should be less than ten minutes only to come up for the back of the envelope estimation.
So it's always better that ask the interviewer first.
False.
Do you really need back of the envelope estimation for this?
If we say yes, then do it.
But don't take more than ten minutes because we know that it is not going to impact our design.
We still have to use it most probably.
So okay guys, I hope you able to understand what is back of the envelope estimation.
I have told you my approach generally how I proceed further with this, right?
But definitely I will just before going, I also want to say that these numbers are just an estimation
and real numbers are totally different, right?
And this is just my way of computing the back of the envelope.
There could be lot more consideration which we have to do, which might I am not doing it right.
So just do your analysis.
But this is my approach.
I hope you like it, and I hope it would be helpful for you in further analysis of the back of the envelope
estimation, and it will help you in the interviews also.
Okay, guys.
Bye.
Good night.

--- Design a Key-Value Store || Dynamo DB ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do the very very important question design key value database.
So guys this is a very big topic.
But I have divided into smaller steps.
And I tried to explain the each steps in a very simple manner.
Right.
So I hope you will love this video and you will get a lot lot lot of information at the end of this
video.
So stay tuned.
And without wasting much time, let's jump to our question.
So here we are.
So the question which we have is design key value database.
Right.
So it has let me so design key value database.
So first of all where we use it right where we use it right.
So one example I can tell you is.
Amazon add to cart feature.
Right.
So you know about DynamoDB, right?
So you might have heard of DynamoDB.
So Amazon has developed this DynamoDB and they used it internally.
And one of the feature they used it in add to the cart feature.
Right.
So let's learn about this more, how they use it, how the key value DB is designed and how we can use
it for further applications.
Right.
So now let's come into our goals part first.
So what are the goals right.
So.
So what are the goals first.
So there are three goals.
First is.
Scalability.
Second is decentralization.
And third is.
Eventual consistency.
Right.
So I will explain each by a different steps.
Right.
So I will not go and explain each goals now.
Otherwise it may confuse you.
So I will tell you about this three.
Right.
So just note it down this three and one by one we will explain it.
So the steps I am going to tell and explain is first is partition.
Second is replication.
Third which I am going to tell you about get and put operation.
Then fourth is which I'm going to tell you about data.
Versioning.
Right.
And fifth I am going to tell you about gossip protocol.
And sixth, I am going to tell you about Merkle tree.
Right.
So see so many new things you are going to learn.
And with all these steps I will tell you how these three goals are achieved.
Right.
So just note it down and just one on one.
We will cut it off as soon as we will do.
Let's start.
First is partition.
So now when you get a question like this in an interview design key value DB.
What first thing strikes you?
You are right.
Hash table right.
In hash table we have in memory Let's say we are keeping in memory data and we have a key.
We have a value, right.
So at whatever the hash key or whatever the key we are getting, let's say one, two, three, we are
putting some value against that.
Right.
And we keep it in memory.
So but just think about from an Amazon perspective Amazon add to cart feature.
Right.
So we have millions and even say you can say that also possible billions of users right.
Distributed across the region.
Right.
So is it possible that with only one hash table or in a one system, we should be able to scale?
No, right.
We will not be able to scale.
So how do we achieve this scalability then?
The answer is partition.
And for the partition it uses the concept of consistent hashing.
I have already made a separate video about this consistent hashing I have given at top the link.
Right, so in the high level design playlist style you can go and learn about consistent hashing.
But still I will give a brief about it so that we will be in sync.
Okay, so how does partition happen.
So let's understand this.
Consistent hashing is so there is a virtual ring.
Right.
Let me create a circle.
Again.
There is a virtual ring.
And inside a virtual ring it places the servers.
So let's say I am placing four server server one, server two server three server four.
Right.
So as a part of partition, we need to divide the data between each server so that our the load of the
balance load of the traffic remains equal.
Right.
So what happened here is we assign a range to each servers.
So let's say I have assigned the range to is 1 to 50.
So all the keys which lies in this 1 to 50.
123456789 ten.
Similarly this 50.
So all the keys which lies between 1 to 50 is gonna be taken care by s one, right?
Similarly, we have assigned this server to as a range 51 to let's say 100.
This one we have defined to let's say 101 to 150, and this one 151 to 200.
Right.
So any data comes in, let's say I have I am getting one data I need to put into this let's say car
right.
So first what we will do is we will generate a key.
Generate a key.
You might be using some algorithm for generating a key.
Let's say the key value which comes is let's say it's 445, right?
So we know that which server is going to take care of that?
Well that key 45 key, it's S1 because S1 has the range 1 to 50.
So any key which falls under this range it's going to take care by S1.
Right.
You got it.
So here the car is going to be taken care by car is going to be stored here in the S1.
This this is the value.
This is the key right.
So I'm just saying key one this is key one is stored has the value car and it is stored at S1.
Why.
Because 45 is fall under the range of this server.
Right.
So any key which will come here into 1 to 50 it will be taken care by S1.
Right.
Similarly, if there is any other data which comes, let's say, uh, India and uh, the key value comes
is let's say you it comes in at 175.
Where does it fall?
175 is within which range?
151 to 200.
It will be taken care by S4.
So key two.
So let's say this is key two.
So it will store in its locally S4 data is stored here right.
So now consistent hashing I told you in the consistent hashing video that it has one problem that what
if there is a certain hot keys, let's say s1, s2, S3, s4 and let's say there is a certain hot keys
which always fall into this range only one 250 range only.
Right?
Let's say 12345 4045.
45.
Let's say it's this fall under this range only.
So then they are free and this will get bombarded, right?
This will get bombarded with all the traffic, right.
To avoid this consistent hashing, call the concept of virtual nodes in the virtual nodes.
What happen is so S1 server each servers is placed at two different location.
So let's say I have kept one server here S4 here also S4 here also some S4 here also similarly S3 I
will place it, let's say here S3 is here also here also here also here also similarly S1 let's say
s1.
I have placed here also some randomly more positions, right?
So now if you see that the traffic which was coming earlier.
Right.
So the traffic which was coming earlier and it was going inside all S1 earlier.
All the traffic which was coming here is fulfilling by S1, but now it is not the case.
So now it has been divided.
This is S1, this is taken care by S3.
This is taken care by S4 and then again S1.
So now if you see the traffic has been distributed between multiple servers.
So that's how virtual node has been used.
So I hope consistent hashing is clear.
Little bit.
But if you want in detail please check out the video.
Right.
I have shared in the description link and you can also check out the playlist and take out the link
right?
So now you know we have done this scalability.
So scalability is done.
You have achieved one goal and one step is completed partition.
Now the second goal is decentralization.
So now the second steps we will use this to do a decentralization.
So now what does decentralization means?
So decentralization means if any failure happens right in one particular node, our system should not
get down right.
So what was the problem in this partition.
Let's say I have the data stored in S1 car.
What if S1 goes down.
So now S1 has the data car.
If somebody asks for this key one hey get me the key one.
But the S1 is down.
It will not be able to serve the request right?
So that's why it says that it should be decentralization, right?
So we need some backup, right?
Even though there are failures, we should be able to fulfill the request.
And how we do that replication is the answer.
So we take an example of car.
So this key which comes out as let's say 45.
So we know that S1 gonna hold it right.
Car is gonna store here.
Key one.
Right.
Till now, we are here because 45 is in the range of S1, right?
All this will be taken care by this.
So now replication says that by default value is.
So there is a n n is say that.
What is the replication number.
So by default is three but it is configurable.
You can change it to 456 anything.
So by default is three.
So let's go with that number only.
So what does it says that once the so S1 is here it is called coordinator.
So just remember these two names.
So the key falls within which whichever range.
So whatever servers take care of it.
It is called coordinator.
Right now it has to do replication.
So what it will do is it will go a clockwise direction right.
And find n minus one servers.
So how many n we have defined three.
So one is already added in a coordinator itself.
The key which lies within it.
Now n minus one servers it will put a copy.
So here's two.
It will put car key one.
And here one copy here.
So n minus one three minus one is two.
So in the two servers.
So here one and another is this 1K1 key car.
Got it.
So here as soon as it will do a copy it will also maintain one preference list.
So another is preference list.
This is very important.
Preference list is very important.
Just remember this.
So in the preference list.
So preference list is for each key range right.
So S1 knows that.
What is preference list.
So it first is the coordinator.
So S1.
So for this range 1 to 50 keys.
So 1 to 50 key range.
This is the preference list.
So first one is always the coordinator.
And the another one is list is the replicas where the replicas we stored for this range.
So for 1 to 50 range the replicas are stored into S2 and S3.
So S2 and S3 right.
So this is the preference list.
And preference list is very very important.
It's gonna really help you in the get and put operation to understand better.
So just note it down this part right.
So you understand what is coordinator.
So whenever the key comes like car value.
So we find out it's key.
So if the key is 45 so it falls into one of the range of a server.
So whichever range of a server it falls into that known as coordinator.
Right.
So that in the first top of the preference list.
Right.
And then we have to put a copy.
So how many copies we have to put whatever the default or configuration you have defined the value of
n right.
Replicas number n minus one.
We have to put right because in coordinator we have already put it.
So n minus one s2 and s3 goes into the clockwise direction and put the copies.
And we will put here in the preference list.
Also just a bottom of coordinator right.
So here if you see that the copy can you have a different it's not always a sequential.
When you move into a clockwise direction it cannot always be sequenced.
S1 and S2 for S3 it will not always be in sequence.
Why?
Because copy we can have different algorithms like I want to choose the server which are in different
data center.
Let's say S1 and S2 are in same data center, so it will skip.
It will choose another server which is in different data center.
So it moves to the clockwise direction.
But it choose only those servers which we wanted which we have configured.
So what could be that like different server in different data center.
That could be one preference.
Right.
Because let's say in one data center one data center there is server one, server two, server three.
What if there is a fire in this data center all gone.
Right.
So that's why we it's always better to choose servers into different data centers.
So one copy is here.
So let's say this is the coordinator.
Then the copy it might choose is S4 and maybe S5 possibly.
Or it could be S6 in different data centers.
Right.
Another thing is we as I told you there is a concept called virtual nodes.
So it is possible that S1 comes again, S1 comes right.
So it should not be counted this one.
So it should skip virtual nodes.
So that's why I said that we move in a clockwise direction.
But the servers it might pick it not be a sequential S1.
So one copy could be here.
Another copy could be here right.
So we might skip this.
So you got it right.
So you understood now the partition uh the replication.
Right.
So in replication, two important things you have understood.
So partition was, uh, consistent hashing.
And replication.
You understood about the coordinator.
Who is the coordinator.
Right.
And how we maintain a preference list where replicas are stored.
In which servers, in which server replicas is stored.
Right.
Just always thinks about the range.
Right.
Range.
Right.
So the.
Third part get and put operation.
So.
Let's do with the third get and put operation.
What are the important right of.
The ring s1 s2 s3 s4.
Right.
But it can be millions also.
Right.
Servers or thousands?
Ten thousands.
Right.
There can be millions of keys, thousands of servers.
It possible.
So it's a big but for easy purpose.
Let's understand with the for itself.
And now you are aware of the range also that each server is taking care of a particular range.
Right.
I have given the range to.
All right.
Now first understand the put operation.
Let's understand the put operation first.
Before that.
Let's say you got a put car right.
Put car request comes in.
How this will work.
Now can you tell me you it will first find the key.
We get a key number where it will range.
Right.
Let's say it comes again 45.
Right.
So 45 is taken care by S1 right.
S1 so we create first S1 will restore car.
Key one.
Right.
And it is also maintains a preference list here.
Preference list.
So it will maintain S one.
So till now the put request is completed.
No it is not yet completed.
Right.
So find key.
It has got the key and it.
Right into.
The server.
So who picked it.
So 45 lies into the S1.
So S1 picked it S1 right.
It locally.
But is the job completed.
Have we responded back.
No, because we have also need to put into the replicas.
Now what S1 will do S1 will do in a synchronous manner.
It will.
It knows that, right?
I told you that each Knows about what all servers it need to put the replicas right.
Each servers knows and also each servers knows everybody about preference list.
I will tell you how.
So there is something called I told you about gossip protocol.
Right?
Gossip protocol.
I will come to it later, but for now assume that in a DynamoDB in here.
In this case, each server knows about each and everyone preference list.
And what does preference list is?
Who is the coordinator means where this request should actually come, right?
Other xo xo xo 51 200 101 to 150.
So S3 so S3 should be at the top right or the replicas replicas.
So preference list contained at the first value is the coordinator and the bottom It contains the replicas
in which server contains a copy of that value.
Right.
So now when the put request comes in, we have, let's say n defined as two.
And you know right.
What is n.
It is a replica number.
So I told you it by default is three but it is configurable I use two.
And what does two means.
After the value is stored in S1 it has to write into n minus one replica n minus one servers.
Right.
So n minus one is one more server.
So in async manner or let's say we take three.
So n minus one is two servers.
So two servers it has to write.
So in async manner it will send request to S2.
And it will also send request to S3.
Right.
Let's say it's preference list is S2 and S3.
So this is the coordinator for this range.
Always learn about this range.
So one extra concern.
Who is the range of this keys 1 to 50.
This range keys is S1 is a coordinator and S2 and S3.
We will put the copy replicas right.
So as soon as the request comes we put it.
And now S1 will check its preference list.
And in the preference list it will see that okay, now I have to put the replica in S2 and S3 and in
the async manner it will send the request to S2 and S3 async manner.
Remember this right?
And when we send a success response back to the client.
So this is the client he sent the put request when we will send the success.
So there is a formula called r plus w greater than n.
What is n is here in this case three.
It is nothing but a replica n like how many replicas we want to keep into different server.
So let's first talk about W.
So here we say that okay we have to put the copy into two servers right.
But do I have to wait for two servers to get.
Okay.
Even though I have initiated the async request to each two servers, S2 and S3.
But do I have to wait for both to successfully completed?
And then only I can send the success response that is derived by w.
Let's say w is one, so it will wait only for any one of them.
So S1 has sent async request to S2 and async request to S3 that update yourself with this replica key
one, right as soon as it will get one response or whatever we have defined in W.
So let's say we have defined in W is one.
As soon as we get one response, we will send the success.
Got it?
What is this w means?
So we will put the put request success.
We will hold the put request till we don't get this many success response from the replicas.
Understood the put how the put works.
Let's now understand how the get works.
So now let's say the same thing.
Key I have asked for the key.
What is the key?
Let's say k one.
Now.
I think you can now guess by now what is happening here.
So we have range.
Okay.
So this is has the car during put K one.
This is also has k one car.
All keep the replica and S one has the preference list maintained Maintain for 1 to 50 key range for
this key range.
My preference list is S1.
This is top one is now you know is coordinator and then replicas are present into S2 and S3 right.
So now get request comes in.
So now understand with this this is very very important.
Now I will tell one more thing that what I missed to tell you in the put request there is a load balancer
in mid.
Here is a load balancer when the request comes in.
And this is our consistent hashing right.
What we have drawn here.
So when the request comes in so load balancer can be of two.
Type one is generic load balancer.
Another is partition aware load balancer.
So if it is a generic load balancer then the get or put request can comes to any node.
Comes to any node.
Let's say for key one.
Key one which was 45 where it should go.
Generally it is the range 1 to 4050.
So S1 it should go right.
But if we are using generic load balancer it can comes to any node in the consistent in the ring it
might reach to S4 also.
But now S4 will see.
And I told you each and every node in the ring is aware of the partition or the preference list right
of a key range.
So for this range 45 it knows that this is the preference list.
And at the top it will see who is the coordinator.
S1 is the coordinator.
So S4 will see.
Am I the coordinator.
No.
Right.
So what it will do is it will take a hop and it will send the request to the S1.
Hey S1, you take care of it.
This key right.
You are the coordinator right?
If S1 is down.
Right S1 is down.
Then from the code then the S4 will take the next server from the preference list.
So you know the importance.
You are seeing the importance of preference list here, right?
So here we have hopping.
So request can goes to anybody.
But everyone will check from the preference list of that range.
Am I the coordinator know if I am not the coordinator it will pass to the from the preference list for
that range.
It will pass it to the coordinator.
If coordinator is down, it will pick the another server which has the copy of the data from the preference
list.
Similarly, in the Get request, get request can be achieved through anywhere, right?
So if let's say S4 get the request again the same process.
If it is not the coordinator, it will pass to the coordinator.
If coordinator is down, it will pick any server from the which keep the data replicate data.
So you see right how we are bringing the decentralization.
And so here we have hopping with high latency.
But it is simple to implement generic load balancer.
But here we have to put it is low latency.
Because load balancer is aware of the partition.
So when the load balancer get that okay you want to access this key either put or get 45.
So it will directly pass request to the S1 because it is aware of it.
Right.
It don't have to take an additional hop.
It will directly send to the S1.
Right.
But it has to.
We have to put some logic here in the partition aware load balancer.
Right.
So now you aware of this how the load balancer comes into the picture.
So now let's jump into the get request more.
Now let's say.
a consistent hashing a server one gets the get key, one key one has like 45.
And this has the range of 1 to 50.
Right.
So now server one will get the request.
Whichever algorithm will you pick for load balancer either by hopping or directly control will come
to the coordinator.
So in the preference list.
It is S1.
Then it will have S2 and then it will has three.
So it is the control will come to the top one if it is available.
So now what does get will do get will say that I told you one formula right R plus w greater than n
where n is the number of replica n is three.
In this case, because there are three replicas in the coordinator and two in the this one.
So you know that.
What is w now?
What is r?
R says that.
So when the Get request come from client right it goes to our db.
Key value db.
So now when S one receive it's one will wait.
Ask all the replicas.
So S one will ask hey S2, do you have the copy of this key?
Key one hey S3, do you have the copy of this key?
Give me.
It will ask the copies.
Replicas from the different servers.
Whoever keep the replicas right.
So R says that.
Wait for whatever the value you are defining.
Let's say you have defined R equals to two.
So S1 will wait.
Consider the read successful till it don't get two responses right.
So you have defined r equals to two means.
So there could be many replicas.
Let's say X6X ten right.
So it is send the request that send me the replica.
Send me the replica.
Right.
But it doesn't have to wait for all the force.
But it has to wait only for how much we have configured.
So it has to wait.
Only two success response from any of the server.
So let's say S2 respond.
Hey, this is what I have S3 response hey, okay, for this key, this is what I have.
So once S1 get all the replicas it will return back to the client.
You got it.
What is the role of R plus w?
So here R is the number of response it has to wait during read operation, the number of responses it
should get right from the replicas before considering the request as a success.
Right?
There could be ten replicas, but.
And S1 has sent to all the ten replicas that give me the data which you are holding, right?
What are the data you are holding for this key?
But even if we get from this value r equals to two or r equals to three, whatever you will define,
if you get the response from 2 or 3, we considered it as a read as a success.
And why we do that.
So now the question comes to your mind that why for the get operation we are reading from different
replicas, right?
S1 is available S1 can directly response right?
Why is the need to go to each replica and finding out the data?
Right now I'm going to come to the.
Fourth point data versioning.
So now you are understand this get input operation right.
I hope it would be very much clear.
Right.
So now I am going to the data versioning.
This is again again very important.
If you are with me till here.
Good job guys.
And it's going to get very much interesting now, right?
If you have doubt, feel free to go through again.
I am pretty much sure it will get cleared right.
So now data versioning.
I told you that during Get request, let's say server one is the coordinator.
It will goes to each replica, let's say S4, S10, S11 and it will ask return me what data you have
for this key one right?
Why?
What is the need?
Why S1 cannot itself directly return from here?
Now I will tell you why.
Because no system is perfect.
There are failure happens.
And when failure happens, different servers.
So let's say s1, s2, S3, s1, S4, S10, S1, S4, S10, s11 11, which is holding a key value.
Let's say key one was car.
It was holding key one as let's say car.
But this one is holding key one as cart.
So different data like you understand right.
The for the same key it's cart e right.
So if you if you see because of failure into the network all are connected through network only right.
All are connected through network only.
So.
But if you see each server holds a different version of the key, different version of the key means
it has car, it has car.
Okay, this is same, but this has different operation cart.
How?
Because I told you that in the put operation, the first one is.
Okay.
Let me tell you now this one how this different version can happen into a system.
Let's understand this.
So I am taking one preference list.
For example my key Ki is 45, let's say.
And for 1 to 50 range the preference list is.
Preference list is let's say S1.
And so this is my coordinator.
And S2 and S3 are my replica here.
My replicas stored here.
Also my replica stored for this key.
Okay.
So now how in this system different version can happen because of failure.
So now I told you whenever the put request comes in put let's say for this key.
Key one put a value car right.
And the key value is let's say 45.
So where it will go to the coordinator right now you know.
So let's say S1 get like what it get car key one right.
And I will tell you how this data versioning is solving that thing right.
Till now let's say I am using it now.
What will happen?
Let's say it want to put put again key one.
Now it want to update.
So whether it's an update or create it's a put in DynamoDB.
Whether it's an update or create request, it will be converted into put only.
So now you want to put into change the car to cart.
Now let's say S1 goes down, now S1 goes down.
So when S1 goes down or maybe let me change it to the preference.
Now S1 is down, now S1 is down.
So who will pick the request.
So you know right.
It will goes to the preference list.
If x1 is down, it will go to the next one.
So let's say now S2 is the one which handles the request.
And it will say that okay.
Now key one which I have is earlier I it was having car because it was replicated also.
Right.
So S2 and S3 before S3 also have k one car.
It was having also car right.
Because once the S1 has the data it will replicate itself.
Right.
So now after S1 is.
Got a failure.
Right.
And now S2 will be one which is accepting the right request.
Now it has to change the key one to cart.
So key one to cart.
So it will change it to cart.
Right.
And let's say there is a network failure here also.
So S2 was has to s after the S2 got it, it has to send the update to the S1 and S3, but S1 is already
down and let's say there is a network failure between here.
Also, S2 cannot talk to S3.
Now what will happen is S3 is not aware that CART has a car has become cart.
Now let's say another request comes in in parallel of this one port key one and change it to let's say
car M, right.
So now if you see here right.
S3 will say that.
So now from the preference list coordinator S2 was already working.
And in parallel one more request comes.
So it says that okay S3 you can you handle it S3 will take care it S3 will change it to CRM.
Now nobody take now nobody talks to each one.
Now if you see in a system in a consistent hashing, if you see each server is holding a different version
of a data.
So server one is holding car server two is holding cart, server three is holding CRM car right now.
If Get request comes now a get request come which one it will return.
Now let's say S1 is up back.
So when S1 is back, S1 is back, x one is ask okay S2 what data you have, S3 what data you have.
So S1 say I have car.
Let's say I have cart and it say I have car.
So S1 will say now man, what to do now all are different version.
What to do, how to resolve this.
So that's where we have something called vector clock right.
So this is very important.
And just learn this one like data versioning uses vector clock.
How vector clock work is.
Let's use the same example.
And I will tell you how this works.
All right.
It's very easy.
Nothing much.
Right.
So I'm taking the same example.
Hold on with me, guys.
I am pretty much sure that you might be getting it right.
There is a lot of information.
Just read it one more time.
You will get it.
I can tell you like there is a lot of things you will get covered from this itself.
So now let's understand about vector clock how vector clock helps in this failure use case.
How this different version example.
So what I told you that what was the preference list for 1 to 50 range was uh preference list is s1,
s2, S3 let's say.
So let's say first put request comes in put key one put car.
So vector lock is vector clock is the list of server comma Counter for each object or data.
You can say that particular key for each key.
So now let's say in this case put this key car one.
So key is it will goes to this range.
So let's say k one is 45.
It will go to this range.
Who is the coordinator S1.
So S1 got it.
S1 says that okay man I will take this put request and it will put one vector clock.
Vector clock is for the key one.
Or we can say that for a car or let's say for the key of car.
I am having it's this counter server comma counter.
And for each key right.
So key is currently has the value car.
And it will propagate this to in the async manner to.
It's replicated in the from the preference list s2 and S3.
So S2 will now also know about that okay.
This car is currently has this counter.
So this is S3 or this is S2.
Now let's say another put request comes.
So after say another put request comes let's say k2 again let's say c a r.
Now let's say S1 is still up.
It's not down.
So what will happen again S1 only will catch it now S1 what earlier s1 has earlier S1 has S1 comma one
right.
So it will override it.
So it will write a new version.
Right.
And it will discard the old because it knows that.
It's taking care of.
So there is no other.
So it knows that it can resolve this conflict that okay, this is the latest 1S1 comma two.
It increment the version.
So it changed to cart.
Right.
And it will send this in the async manner to it, replica S2 and S3 that.
Now this is the update yourself.
So S1 comma version two cart s1 s1 comma version two right.
And S1 comma one has been discarded because it can s one server, one can easily reconcile itself that
okay, this one is the old one counter one.
And now I have counter two.
Now at this point of time let's say that server goes server one goes down right.
Server one is down now.
Server S1 is down.
Now another put request comes in.
Put k one.
Now I am I'm changing card to c a r m.
Now it will goes to the preference list.
Preference list is server one is down.
Who will accept it.
Server two.
So server two what it will see.
Server two says that okay I have carte s one comma two right now each one maintain.
So what is vector clock is list of server comma counter.
So what it will hold it will have CRM.
So it will update itself CRM and it will give that okay s one comma two.
And it will put its counter s two comma one.
Right.
And let's say one more put request is coming in parallel with this k one.
And it is putting let's say CARR2R.
And let's say server one is down.
Server two is busy.
So let's say server three request goes to server three right.
Server three can take care of this, right?
Any server in the preference list can take care of the request.
So it will put car car and what earlier it has.
It has s one comma two.
Now it will create its own version S three comma one server one.
What it has was cart and s one comma two it was has this right.
And it was down.
Right.
And let's say that S2 and S3 also there is no network.
There is a partition.
So whatever the data is present in S2, S2.
So once the data reached s2, S2 also wanted to replicate to the S1 and S3 in a nursing manner.
But let's say there is a partition.
S1 is already down, so it cannot update it.
S3 there is a partition, so S2 cannot update to S3.
S3 cannot update to S2.
It is not possible.
So now if you see that in a system we have three versioning.
But now in this case from the previous what you see.
But here we have a vector clock.
Now how vector clock is used is now let's say get request is coming.
Get k one right.
Get k one.
Now let's say server one is up.
Now server one is up.
So server one is up.
So server one will take this request okay.
You want k one okay.
So I told you how the get works right.
So get will ask its replicas S2 and S3.
Send me your data.
Right.
So S1 will have carte S1 comma two.
And what it will get from S2 is.
So this is from S1.
so from S2 it will get.
I have CRM and this is my version S2 comma one and S3 will say I have c a RR and this is my version.
So now if you see that.
So first before returning to the client.
So it has to do the reconciliation.
So it will see that okay s1 two s1 two S1 two means everyone has this base information, but S2 and
S3 has some additional information.
So definitely this is not the latest one either.
This is latest one.
So there is something now conflict which S1 cannot resolve.
So what get to is get return both the data both the version to the clients.
So now let's say who is the client.
Now you say who is the client.
In this case let's say my add card Service.
So this is one component which makes a Get request.
Now get request.
See that this okay.
These are the two version which I cannot resolve.
So it will return this two version to the client.
Right now client has certain algo.
So one certain algorithm is last right.
Win.
Like whichever the last right happen it will just collapse it based on the last right.
Right.
So there are different algorithm.
We will not go much deeper into this.
Also one algorithm is last right win algorithm.
So add card service or client should have this algorithm.
It should resolve the conflict right.
And send a new request to put to resolve the conflict.
So here once it get the put let's say now client has resolved the conflict and it will send the version
s one comma.
Let's say three.
It was earlier s one comma two.
So now let's say s one is getting s As one itself is getting this put request.
So S1 will increment this counter to 2 to 3, and it has also merged the conflict from s2 comma one
and s3 comma one.
So means it has the combined data of all and again it will replicate it to S2 and S3.
Got it guys.
So complicated vector clock.
But I think I try to explain in the most easiest manner with example.
Just go through it once, you will get it.
Definitely conflict get will send both the versions right and the client possess the algorithm to resolve
this and pass the latest data.
And whichever the component, whichever the coordinator or replica get this request, it will store
it and pass it to the other component, other servers.
Okay, so now you know about decentralization and eventual consistency.
And that's what called eventual consistency.
So eventual consistency means one time you put a Get request you got some stale data.
So here if you see that the first time ad service made a Get request, it got stale data.
Let's say it got version one to version.
But over the time, if you made further get request after reconciliation and all, you will get latest
data.
So it's not guarantee that you will always get latest data.
You might get stale data, but if you repeat you might get the latest data.
So now if you see that what it has done is from the Cap algorithm or the Cap concept, it has sacrificed
the See consistency for the higher availability.
So DynamoDB and the key value store uses AP and sacrifice consistency.
So eventual consistency is done and data versioning is done.
Now these are very two simple concepts.
I will not take much of your time.
So I will explain this gossip protocol.
Okay.
So what I told you in early that in a ring.
In a ring each server.
Each server is aware of everybody.
Right.
Each server aware of everybody range.
Right.
So just a sac.
Uh, so each server is aware of everybody range.
So how do they know it.
And also what if any server is down.
How does everybody knows it.
That is through gossip protocol.
Gossip protocol.
So each server maintain a members list.
So S4 has okay.
What is s1, s2 s3 s4 status.
S4 status.
So each server maintain a membership kind of list.
And at a periodic range, let's say after one second they send their heartbeat to random nodes that
yes, I am up, I am up.
And apart from heartbeat, they also send certain other information like what range they are taking
care of.
Let's say I am taking care of 151 to 200 so it will send its heartbeat plus also some additional information,
right?
So with this heartbeat only they all knows that when I have seen in last up.
Right.
So now let's say for example S2 is down S2 is down Rest two is down.
So now when this S2 will get removed from the system, when more than one server says that, identify
that S2 is down.
So now everybody is maintaining the heartbeat.
Let's say S2 is not sending the heartbeat.
So everyone is maintain the counter.
Let's say it's counter last counter it has let's say at 12 p.m..
This one was let's say 10 a.m..
Everybody is let's say 11:30 p.m..
So now if you see an also counter, let's say 30 or 1020.
So everybody maintain.
So now everybody identify that S2 has not updated its counter for a long time.
Is it down.
Right.
So if one server says that it is not guaranteed.
But if more than one server identify that yes.
For S2, I haven't heard anything, then S2 is marked as down right?
So that's why it is known as gossip protocol that every second or every predefined time is server send
certain information like heartbeat like range information.
They are taking care of two random servers, which further accumulated information sent to the further
random servers such that all servers know about each other, right?
And if any server is not updating, heartbeat is not updated or latest information, it will be taken
out of the system.
So this is known as gossip protocol.
Now one another is.
Merkle tree.
Now why it is needed right.
So this is a simple concept but very important right.
So I currently I am taking an example of only four nodes.
And.
All right so it looks very easy.
But in reality there are millions of keys right.
So let's say server one, server two, server three.
So server take care of let's say 1 to 1000.
It will take care of 1001 to 2000.
Now server one.
This range preference list is who holds the replica let's say S2 right.
So now let's say for this particular key range.
Let's say from 500 to 700.
The replica is not updated right.
Replica is not updated.
How do you know one thing is first is take all the thousand keys and update check he has to.
Do you have the latest replica or not?
So in reality it's not 1000, it's million.
So either you have to check millions or to check that.
What is the range?
Or you can say that the Merkle tree is used to identify.
Does the replica holds the latest data of its key or not and how it has happened.
So this is server one.
This is server two.
This is let's say coordinator.
And this is hold where the replica.
So it has let's say I'm just saying for example four keys right.
Only four keys S1 s2.
It has only four keys.
So what it will do is in the Merkle tree.
So this has one snapshot of Merkle tree.
This is also have one snapshot of Merkle tree right.
So four key it will have.
This key would be here Ki one ki two ki three ki four at the leaf node.
So it will take a hash of here hash of child.
It will take a hash of child.
And then it will a hash of this.
So similarly kind of it will have here key one.
Key two.
Key three.
Key four.
So similarly the hashing concept would be here.
Right.
So now in the Merkle tree what it will do is it will start from top and it will compare from the coordinator
to its replica.
That okay I have hash value 121 here.
Do you have 121 here?
If yes, all the data are correct.
No need to go further.
Even if it is 1 million.
Nothing to check, but let's say it is.
Say 127 means something is off.
Something is not correct.
Something is out of range.
Then it has to go to the left and also check it to the right.
Right.
So left, left is let's say 107.
It's also left is 107.
It is correct.
Then it will go to its right.
Let's say this is 100 and this is 80.
So now it is say that okay, something is different here.
So now if you see that we are kind of using binary tree and we have simplify the complexity instead
of now searching all four keys okay.
Key one uh, in server two do you have the latest key one.
Key two now we have just know that okay.
Key one.
Key two is the latest because their hash is same but it could be millions.
So we have saved lot of time.
So now you know that why Merkle tree is known.
So it helps us to identify whether all the keys within a range of a particular coordinator or server.
Does replica also have the same updated version or the latest data?
If not, what is the range of keys which is not up to date, so only that it will focus on and it will
update those.
So with that lot of information.
We I am done with design key value db and DynamoDB is using this into the add to cart feature of Amazon.
And I think with this you will get a lot of other information like gossip, protocol, Merkle tree,
how the get and put operation works into a key value DB right.
Replication consistent hashing vector clock.
Right.
So it is a very very important from understanding the system design perspective guys.
And if you have any doubt let me know.
I will conduct one live session for this where you can ask the doubts.
And I will just use this session and do the question more.
I hope guys please do do share with your LinkedIn connections who might require the help this content
to them in their interview preparation.
And please comment your thoughts how you like this video guys.
Have a good day.
Good night.
Bye.

--- SQL vs NoSQL ---

So let's say during an hld round, and if an interviewer asks you which DB you are going to use SQL
or NoSQL, and if your answer is that we can use anything, right?
We can use anything, then definitely you are putting yourself in a difficult situation.
And if your answer is like I am going to use SQL, or let's say I am going to use NoSQL, but if you
don't provide why why you are using this?
Then again, it's kind of a negative for us in the like.
If you are, don't give a proper reasoning why we are using a particular DB for designing any particular
question which has been given to us, right?
So guys, this is Shreyansh and welcome to Concept and Coding.
So today we are covering this very very important question.
So let's without wasting time jump into this one.
And also, guys, before jumping into the question, I will tell you the scope of this video today.
So the scope of this is when to use SQL, when to use NoSQL.
Right.
And some basic about it so that you know what exactly where to use it.
But the scope is out of scope is I am not going to teach you SQL in detail.
I'm not going to teach you NoSQL in details.
Right.
So with that information, uh, I am just starting the video and it's gonna be very, very helpful for
you guys for sure.
Okay, so let's say that I will divide SQL and NoSQL into four categories, right.
Let me divide it into the four.
The first part which I want to divide is uh, its structure.
Right.
And the second part, which I want to divide its nature.
Third, I want to divide on basis scalability.
And third, I want to divide it based on property.
So I will cover this four part for each SQL and for NoSQL.
And with this after this four things we learn about this fourth thing structure, nature, scalability
and property for both SQL and NoSQL.
You will get a better understanding exactly when we have to use each.
So let's first talk about SQL.
As we all know better.
So what is SQL?
SQL.
We already know that it's a structured query language.
Structured query language which is used to query relational database management system, right RDBMS.
Relational database management system.
Right.
So here in this case, relational database management system, everybody knows that it has table.
And then it has rows and columns.
So these are rows then these are columns.
And this is our known as table right.
And there are relations between multiple tables.
Right.
So one this is let's say parent this is child.
There could be more other child also.
Right.
So relational database management system store the data in a structured form.
Right.
Or a structured form.
What is that structure.
Form table.
Inside a table you have a row.
You have a column.
And they have a relation between multiple tables.
So SQL is a way to query to query.
Or you can say that manage this data which is present inside this tables, right.
You can write select, query, insert query, update query.
And with that these queries we are managing the data which is present inside our table.
Right.
So now you know the meaning of SQL.
Now let's see that it's structure right.
I am covering the first part of SQL.
So structure with this definition itself I think it is clear that it is maintained.
So let me maintain here itself.
So its structure is.
It maintained tables row column.
Right.
And it is a pre determined.
Right.
Predetermined.
You can say that schema.
What what I mean by predetermined schema means before even you do the query right before even you insert
the data you have to come up with the schema okay.
What do you mean by schema?
Okay.
This is my table name.
This will be the column let's say name.
This column will hold string let's say or varchar in the DB term.
This is something let's say uh roll number.
This will store let's say integer or number.
What would be the length.
Let's say 20 is the length where let's say 200.
Right.
So you got it right.
What I mean by predetermined schema.
Predetermined schema is you define the schema.
You plan the schema beforehand.
Then.
Then only you can insert the data.
Right.
And then only you can run the query on top of it.
So it's structure is form of a table rows column.
And it's a predetermined schema before you start using it.
So it's a predetermined schema before you start using it.
Right.
And also in this structure is it has relations.
It has tables and inside table.
It has rows and columns.
And there are relations.
Relations between different tables.
So I think this part is very much clear because it's very simple structure part.
Right.
Now let's come to its nature.
Let's come to its nature part.
So the what I mean by nature is let's assume that we are on one server, server one and server one has,
let's say db employee.
This is the db and inside a particular db there are different tables.
Let's say this is table one.
It has multiple columns.
This is table two.
For example I am taking only three tables.
This is table three.
And let's say this is table two.
Somehow they are linked.
Parent child right.
Let's assume that.
And it has data.
Now what nature which I mean is here in a particular server if for a particular user or you can say
that particular employee if for a particular employee.
Employee one let's say I am an employee.
So let's say shreyansh if my data is present inside a particular server.
Let's say this data is present here.
ID is one uh, department is let's say it something and this has its, let's say salary.
And this has something called address something.
So my information is present here in all the tables.
So what I for for a particular employee, let's say in my case, my whole data.
Whole whole data means data present in all the tables will be present inside one server.
Right?
It's not like that.
My table one data is present inside server one, table two and table three data is present inside server
two.
Right.
It is not possible at least.
And also it is not.
It is possible.
I will tell you about sharding also.
Right.
But I'm telling you mostly about the generic use case.
The nature of the SQL.
Right.
It is also not possible that let's say my half is not in this table.
There are, let's say ten columns.
My five columns are present into server one and in the server two.
Also there for the table one rest five columns are present.
No, my whole data is present inside into server one.
My whole data.
So that's why I called the nature is let's say it's a little bit concentrated.
Concentrated or it is like centralized.
Right.
So this is the nature I hope you understand what I mean by nature.
Now let's say about scalability.
So now what I told you about is like my complete data is present into server one, right.
But let's say there is a table Employee also.
And let's say it is holding or let's say it's a user.
User table is holding a user.
Let's say it's a online, uh, online selling company web application, and it is storing the user.
And it has millions of users now.
So it has, let's say around 10 million records and it is continuously increasing.
So we need to scale right.
We need more Ram.
We need more storage capacity.
So there are two ways to scale either vertical.
And second is horizontal.
In the vertical what we can do is we can increase the Ram size.
We can increase the storage capacity.
Right.
This is called vertical scaling.
And in the horizontal here comes the concept of sharding, right?
We can do a sharding based on columns or based on rows.
So what I told you earlier was it is mostly centralized means my data is present inside table one,
table two, table three.
It will store complete information in a particular server, but with the help of sharding I can store
my partial data itself.
Let's say my table one data is present here.
Table two.
Table three data is present into server two or even in the table one.
My certain column data is present here.
Certain column data may be present into server two, but that is not well supported.
It is not well supported in SQL.
And that's why we call that the scalability or scale scalability.
I will say that scale.
The the way SQL scale more intuitively.
Or you can say that very well is vertical.
Right.
So vertical fits much better to SQL.
And the last one which I want to cover is the property right.
So as we all know the asset property of this one SQL a is for atomicity.
C is for consistency I for isolation and D is for durability right.
So I think you all know that about asset.
You can read out in detail.
But I want to tell you the crux of asset is it makes sure that data integrity.
Or consistency it makes sure this asset acid property makes sure that data, whatever the data we are,
store, its integrity maintains, and they should be fully consistent.
That's all what it required like whenever the transaction happened.
So there should be a rules it should follow.
And ultimately once it is done everything data should be totally consistent.
State data should be total integrity should be maintained.
Right.
So these are the properties of this one.
Right.
So now you know about SQL.
What are the little bit properties of SQL structure scalability nature property.
Now let's come to NoSQL.
This is very very important part.
So what does NoSQL means or what is full form.
Sometime we call it as non-relational.
Or NoSQL or sometimes it's called not only SQL.
Now, this is a mostly, uh.
No one is wrong.
All three names are correct.
But this is the mostly preferred.
Says that not only SQL.
Right.
So now I will cover the same thing.
What structure?
What was the second one?
Its nature.
Then we have, uh, scale and its property.
The same thing I will cover for no SQL.
And then you can relate how they are different.
Okay.
Now let's come to the structure first.
SQL SQL works on table columns rows.
But here it works on NoSQL works on unstructured data.
So one is your key value guys.
It's very very important.
Key value.
Second is document.
Document key value db.
Third is uh it is column column wise db and fourth is graph db.
So these are the four type of db which I am covering here in the structure SQL table rows column.
But here in NoSQL it is not table column only.
So it is structure is for type.
It can be for type.
So let's quickly understand what is key value.
Key value db is the most simplest NoSQL.
If you have watched my previous video DynamoDB.
Right here DynamoDB is a key value DB.
Right.
So here you have a key.
You have a value.
Let's say key is one value is opaque.
It can be anything.
It can be string.
It can be integer.
It can be JSON.
So generally this is an opaque two.
Opaque to the generally opaque.
Or what does opaque means is you cannot query based on the value.
You can only query or you can only search based on key.
Right.
It's an opaque value is an opaque data.
We don't know what is the data inside the value.
It could be string, integer JSON anything right.
We cannot query.
We cannot query or search on value but we can query on the key.
That's why it is very fast and DynamoDB uses it right.
And I told you where it uses it.
Also, just check out the previous video.
Key value store second DocumentDB.
DocumentDB also has key and it has a value.
And inside key let's say one.
And the inside the value.
It has the JSON or XML.
It can be anything.
Right now you will ask what is the difference between key value and DocumentDB in key value db.
Also I can store JSON and in the DocumentDB also I can store the JSON.
The difference is inside the DocumentDB you can search based on key and you can also do a query on the
value.
Right.
You can query on the value in the key value.
You cannot query on the value.
It's an opaque to us.
But here you can do a query on this one DocumentDB.
Right.
So here you know that MongoDB.
Is a DocumentDB.
Third.
Column wise DB.
So this is a very interesting kind of DB.
So here if you see that in the in this kind of NoSQL DB what happen is we have a key.
And the value is what is the value.
So this is my key and value is column value.
So I have column name and its value.
Column value.
So let's say column one column two column n and their values right.
So this is the key.
And these are the values it is a list of.
You can say that a column value pair right.
So let's say column is for example my key is let's say 100001.
This is the key.
And now what are the values.
It says.
So value is nothing but a list of column value.
So let's say column is first name.
First name is let's say shreyansh right.
Department.
Let's say it kind of.
So you got it right.
This is column field.
This is value column value.
And this is my key.
So for each key it has a list of column value.
So now here if you see that you will say that okay key.
It's kind of a similar to uh row.
This is my one row.
This is my another.
No.
So the you can say that the difference is let's say another another key.
Now here I have, let's say, three columns of first name department and let's say interest.
And my interest hobby is, let's say playing, uh, basketball.
Right.
But let's say in the for the another key I have, let's say first name, first name, let's say Raj
department, let's say sales.
That's all I only two.
So the number of columns can be dynamic right.
Some row some key can have more number of columns.
Some key can even have less number of columns.
Right.
So you got it column wise DB.
Now let's go to the fourth one.
Now the fourth is graph DB right.
So in the graph DB kind of a NoSQL.
What how the data is stored.
So if the data is stored in a node and edge.
So there is something called node and there is something called an edge which shows the relationship.
So let's say for example, my node is one Shreyansh is this is an edge.
And our relationship is like let's say friend of let's say another node.
Another node could be anything, uh, let's say x, y, z.
This one is friend of some other node.
So now here if you see it can be many other nodes also.
So here if you see if in a kind of graph kind of situation right.
Uh, for example in our social networking social networking right.
Or recommendation recommendation engine.
Uses this kind of DB NoSQL graph DB where we store the data in the form of nodes and edges, and any
search happen like in the social network we need to find.
We can do a directly, find the relation and find the node which are attached to it right in the SQL.
Also they have a relation parent child relation right.
This is primary key.
And let's say this is foreign key and this is how they are attached.
But it do a full scan so it scan the full rows and then find it.
But here it's a direct relationship.
It it is very very fast very very fast.
It directly goes to here right.
It stores this where it is connected to.
So Graphdb is can be used in social networking recommendation engine.
So I think structure is clear right.
Structure is clear.
Key value document graph.
and column wise, these are the four ways to store the data, not table column wise.
Now let's come to the nature.
So if you have seen my previous video again you can see that here.
The data can be stored in multiple nodes.
Node one, node two, node three because it doesn't maintain any relation right.
So it can have certain piece of data.
It can have certain piece of data.
So it is decentralized or not decentralized I would say that it is distributed in nature.
It is distributed in nature.
And this one SQL was concentrated in nature.
Right.
So let's say a user also that is an user.
So in the user let's say 10 million record out of this 2 million records are present here.
2 million records are present here.
It is also possible.
That is also possible in this case, and it can be done very easily.
So that's why we say that it's a distributed in nature.
And if you want to know how these different nodes data can be stored again guys please watch out the
previous video and actually write a key value store.
It will give you a very good understanding of how the data is distributed in different nodes in the
NoSQL.
So the nature of this is distributed data can be distributed.
And what is the scale?
I think it's already answered now horizontal horizontal scaling.
So now let's say my user table is growing fast.
As soon as 1 million it crossed.
And now I will start putting let's say one initial 1 million.
I am putting here another 1 million.
I am putting into the node two, another in node three, I can add any number of nodes and stores the
user data.
Right.
So how it is growing, it is growing horizontal and how it was growing vertical.
And the last is property.
Right.
What is this property?
Is it is not falling acid.
It is falling base acid.
They use don't forget or don't use acid.
It is falling base.
So what base is?
It is basically available.
Basically available right.
It is called safe state.
And this is called eventual consistency.
What does it mean.
Basically available means it is highly available DB NoSQL highly available is the data is stored in
distributed manner right.
User one.
User two.
Let's say I am saying that let's say my data is present here and let's say x, y, z data is present
here.
And if you have seen the previous video, you know that how it is highly available because there is
a replication happen.
So data also present here, data also present here.
Right.
And if anything comes for the update of this or anything if this is down it can this can serve the request.
This can serve the request.
So it is a highly available DB right.
That's why it's called basically available.
So guys please please please do watch out the previous video.
Lot of things will get you will get clear eventual consistency and all those things right.
I have explained totally in depth in the previous video.
Right.
So basically available means it since it was uh, distributed in nature, the data would be available
mostly.
We can never lose the data safe Save state.
What does save state means?
Save state means right state can be changed.
State of data can be changed without interaction itself.
Can say user hasn't done any interaction.
Then again the data can be changed.
How?
If you have seen the previous video, you will get to know that we maintain the like.
The data is present into different node node one, node two, node three.
Or you can say that server server one, server two, server three.
Right.
Let's say this is holding Shreyansh and the its we store.
You know that vector clock.
So it has let's say one and it has let's say server one.
And this is the one it is holding Shreyansh two.
And it says that server two.
So there are different clock values present.
So even though there is no interaction, when they automatically sync with each other, they will get
to know that okay, you have the latest data because it is distributed right.
Some have a latest copy, some might.
It is possible that it have a stale copy.
So when they sync each other it is possible that they will update themselves.
So that's why it says that state can be changed of a data.
Data state can be changed even without interaction.
Right.
Nobody has given the command but they update themselves.
So that's what it's called.
It's a safe state.
And the third one is eventual consistency.
Eventual consistency means if you query, you might get stale data.
But if you repeatedly do the query after some time, after some time, you might get the latest data.
So that's why it's called eventual consistency.
You might get stale data, but maybe after some time you will get latest data because they will.
Once they will sync up, they will update themselves and change to the latest data.
Right.
So that's why it says that eventual consistency that after some time if you retry you might get the
latest data.
So these are the properties of this one not asset property does it does not follow.
So now you guys know at least Basic of SQL and NoSQL.
Now let's come to the very very important part.
When to use which one.
When to use.
SQL and when to use NoSQL.
I think you might know already by now.
First of all, if we know that our query is going to be flexible, like if you want flexible query functionality.
Then we have to go for SQL flexible query functionality.
What I mean by flexible query functionality is NoSQL does not support complex query.
Let's say today you are querying based on certain columns like certain columns.
So today is this three table join.
Maybe tomorrow business or business need change and it might be five.
We need five table joins.
Now for that.
So it's a flexible.
So we need SQL for that to support the flexible query.
And NoSQL does not support flexible query.
It supports only very basic query search.
If if you need only basic query search go for NoSQL.
If you need flexible query functionality, go for SQL.
Right.
And also I would say that if you know basic research or you know that in advance.
What column you need to search for, you need search capability.
If it's a very basic search, you can use NoSQL.
Or if you already know that, I will always use kind of this columns, 4 or 5 columns to do my searching.
Then also you can know because it's not flexible, it's not changing.
So you can use NoSQL.
Second thing is your data is kind of a relational nature.
Relational nature means they have too many thing, uh, dependencies like this is a parent.
This is a child, right?
They have a kind of relational relational data.
Right.
So here, if you see that in NoSQL, generally data is uh, we put that where the data is not in relational
form, right?
It is not too tightly dependent to each other.
Right.
So that is another criteria where which we choose that whether to you go for SQL or whether to go for
NoSQL, just look at the data, what kind of data you are trying to store.
Like uh, it just like if you are trying to store, uh, kind of, okay, this is my key, this is my
value.
And we have to search.
We don't want like, okay, this is my parent thing.
And then I need to keep its children's also.
And then they are related to anybody else.
So relational means kind of they are linking very much to uh parent hierarchy.
Just what I mentioned.
Hierarchy.
If there are lot of hierarchy in your table then I think relational is better.
Like, uh, too many relations is present parent child kind of relationship.
Third one is your data integrity.
As I already told you, it follow acid.
It doesn't follow acid property.
So if data integrity is required means you cannot lose a single transaction, you cannot loot.
You cannot lose consistency in your database.
You cannot afford to lose the consistency.
Then there is no way you can go to NoSQL.
You have to go to SQL where whenever the data integrity or consistency is required, for example, in
kind of financial institution.
This is must.
So you have to go with SQL consistency.
Because in NoSQL NoSQL is developed to handle large amount of data, big data, millions of millions
and millions of data.
And they are dynamic.
They are changing.
So even losing 1 or 2 transaction or in a millions and billions of data, it is of no impact, right?
So that's why it says that if consistency is required, then go for SQL.
If consistency is not required, then go for NoSQL.
Right here you might get lose some data and it's already said that it's eventually consistent.
You might get the stale data also in your request, which is let's say in case of financial institution
it is not affordable.
Another.
You can say that availability, if you want high availability, high availability and high performance
and you can afford some inconsistency with Some.
Inconsistency.
Then you have to go for NoSQL.
High availability.
High performance.
High performance in search query.
Right.
Searching the data.
So.
And yeah, your system can, uh, afford some kind of, uh, inconsistency.
Then you have to go for NoSQL.
It is very very, very available.
It is because distributed nature, it can never be down almost.
Right.
So it is highly available and the searching capability is very high because data is stored in, uh,
smaller and distributed nodes.
And I told you already about consistent, uh, in the previous video of key value data store how it
can directly go to a particular node and find the data.
Searching is very fast, right?
So if you see this, these are like high availability, high performance and asset property consistency
relational uh data query capability.
So these are the factors which determine which DB you have to choose.
Right.
So I hope this has given you a very, uh, base fundamental between SQL and NoSQL difference which one
to choose among other what are their different kind of how they are different in structure, nature,
scale, property.
Right.
So I think it will help you in your interview while deciding the DB.
Right.
If anything feedback you have for me guys.
So please go ahead and please provide me the feedback.
It would be really helpful and I hope you enjoyed this video and please share your thoughts in the comment
also.
Okay guys, thanks a lot.
And bye!

--- Whatsapp System Design ---

High level design of chat application like design WhatsApp WhatsApp.
Discord.
Telegram.
Slack FB messenger.
Right.
All this comes under this category only.
So this is a very, very important interview question from the from the perspective of system design
interview.
And guys this is Shreyansh.
And welcome to concept and Coding.
And I want your half an hour totally dedicated to this.
And I will make sure that I will do proper justice to it.
Right.
So without wasting time let's jump to our this important question.
So here we go.
So now, as you already having might be using any one of this service.
Right.
So let's first come out with the first step of high level design which is requirement gathering.
Requirement gathering.
Right.
So requirement would be of two types functional and non-functional.
So let's say functional and another will be non-functional.
Right.
So you can consider like functional is like kind of a important which like you can say that MVP product
or minimal value product this should be there.
Non-functional is like okay this is not solving the problem right.
So I am not making but it should be good to have this right.
That's why we call non-functional right is second priority.
So first functional what should we have.
So in the each chat to chat each application WhatsApp discord.
So one thing is we have is 1 to one.
Send and receive message capability.
Right.
We should have this one.
So currently message can be of different type like you can send files.
You can send images videos text.
So for the simplicity purpose I will just consider this for now.
Let's say we are talking about text images.
Files can be easily extended.
It is very simple right?
So first understand with text.
Once we get the context we can enhance the scope for the image right.
So first functional requirement is 1 to 1 send and receive message.
Second is group message support.
We should be able to create a group.
We should be able to send a message in a group.
So and I think you already aware of the how the groups work.
Right.
So you can add a persons into the group and send a message.
Right.
So group message should be supported.
Right.
Another thing is like, uh, last scene.
Right.
Uh, here in the case of WhatsApp, you can see what, uh, when the user, particular user is last
online, last scene or last online and or mostly you can say that online or offline is user is online
or offline.
How do you know it.
Right.
So and uh, another is like user login authentication kind of this.
Things are generally my functional requirement.
This should if if you are talking about chat application chat should have this feature.
Then only it is considered as as chat application non-functional is it is second priority now.
Second priority is like once we have built out a core.
What is my core product now?
Non-functional is which is also important like scalability.
Scalability means it should be taken care of.
Off huge traffic and it should be capable of handling large amount of message.
So if you know that, uh, Facebook on FB messenger, discord they handle, I think maybe millions or
billions of messages per day.
So that is one thing that our whatever now product we are building chat.
So it should be scalable right.
So that is one thing.
Second thing which we want is you can say that, uh, low latency like reading and writing.
And while you are sending it should be low latency.
It should be very fast, kind of a real time.
Like if you have send a message, others should have been received.
Right.
So low latency.
And another I would say that availability.
Yeah chat application should be available right.
It should not like uh you're trying to set that and you get a message.
Services are not available.
Right.
So these are some non-functional requirement which should be present, and these are the functional
requirement for a particular chat application.
Till now we are good.
What is functional?
What is non-functional.
This is our first requirement gathering right.
So generally second step is back of the envelope.
Back of the envelope.
Right.
So I will not spend much time on this because if you are if you are following my playlist I have totally
covered a topic on this how to compute back of the envelope.
So I will spend only one minute here, but actually in the interview also, I have also told in that
video also in interview mostly 80% of the time this is not asked.
Can also feel free to skip this one minute right?
So I will quickly go through this like uh, regarding this back of the envelope part.
So let's say I am taking an assumption that total users is let's say 2 billion.
Right.
So what is the da da?
You mean daily active user?
We can take assumptions so we can say, let's say that 50 million is my daily active user.
Right.
And now we can also take assumption that out of this 50 million.
So one user can send ten message, right.
Two four people in one day.
Right.
So how many messages per day, how many message per day.
It would be 50 million.
Into 40 messages.
Right.
And how many messages per day.
So 50 into 20.
Million.
Million is your 60789.
So it's around 2 billion.
messages per day.
The message send 2 billion messages per day.
And let's say one message I allow 100 character and 100 character.
So what it is, let's say 100 bytes.
So one message is 100 byte and 2 billion messages per day.
So 2 billion into 100 bytes.
So almost 2 billion into 100 bytes like 200 GB per day, 200 GB per day.
Right.
And if I want to maintain a chat history now, if you see that even WhatsApp doesn't maintain a chat
chat history WhatsApp store the data in your phone.
But discord, telegram, slack, FB messenger they all store your in the chat server itself history.
They do maintain the history, right?
So now in this case if I want to maintain a chat history for ten years, then you can compute it, right?
So for one day it is 200 GB.
Then you can compute it for how many it is needed like R you can compute it from this thing right.
200 GB per day.
So into 365 into ten.
So this much memory you needed right.
It might be in terabytes.
Petabytes.
You can compute it.
So but I wanted to give you in one minute how you can compute a back of the envelope estimation if interviewer
asks.
So now let's understand the core concept of chat application now.
So let's say this is my one user user A.
User B so let's say it has IP address something called let's say 192 something something something.
And it has an IP address.
So I'm just taking randomly let's say 182 something something.
If you know it's IP address you can directly talk with each other right.
Peer to peer this is known as peer to peer connection.
If you know it's IP address user IP address you can send him a message.
And user knows the user IP address.
You can send him a message or a message.
Right.
But does it scalable?
No, it is not scalable.
Now if you see that we are talking about daily active user of 50 million, right.
So like might be user A might be talking with each other.
We also need to maintain a chat history.
So how this will be possible into peer to peer right.
So now one thing we know that there would be something called chat server inmate.
So user A and user B will not be talking directly for sure.
So this is now my user A this is now my.
Use of B.
So they are talking now via chat server right.
So they are not talking directly.
So it's a client server architecture right.
So one thing is clear.
Why now this chat server will be uh responsible for scalability.
Grouping.
Chat history.
Availability.
All the things.
Right.
So we need to now work on this one okay.
So one thing is here.
It is not a peer to peer okay.
Now let's dig more deeper.
So now let's say one step more deeper.
User A is sending a message to chat server now right I want to send a message.
Send message.
Right.
So what would be the protocol I want to use?
If so, I can use send message HTTP right.
So what is HTTP?
HTTP is a protocol network protocol where client it work on a request response base request response.
What I mean by request response is client send a request then server response for that request right.
So now here user A is saying that send a message.
Now it's a request to the chat server.
Now in response to it chat server has to send a message to user B.
But now if you see that HTTP work fine here because it's a request client is initiating, client is
initiating the request, but once it got it so send works fine.
But for the receive will HTTP will work.
Know why?
Because as I told you, HTTP works on request response basis.
So client send a request and then server send a response.
Now in the receive message.
Now client has server.
Server has to initiate a request to a client which is not possible in HTTP right.
It should always be initiated by client.
So what shall we do.
So there are different ways right.
So I'll tell you three polling.
Long polling or sometime it is also known as pushing.
And WebSocket.
Right.
So polling and non polling are the types of HTTP we can enhance HTTP.
We can enhance HTTP.
So currently we know that HTTP normal HTTP will not work.
Receive in the receive way right.
So one way is like we can enhance HTTP via polling or long polling.
Or we can use WebSocket.
So before jumping into WebSocket let me explain you what is polling and non polling.
Okay.
Now what is polling.
So inside a polling what will happen is.
So you have a client.
And there is a server.
So client will ask is there a message.
Is there a message for me.
Server will say no.
And then connection closed right.
So you know right HTTP maintain a TCP connection.
So every time client asking something from server it first do a handshake.
shake, uh, do a TCP connection and then ask.
So every time after every response, the connection closed in the polling again.
After some time again message client will ask is message is present for me?
Client will say no, still no messages.
And then again connection break.
So now here if you see in the polling client is again and again asking the question to server.
And most of the time answer is no only.
But maybe sometime let's say yes, you have a message and it will send.
But if you see there is a lot of wastage of resources, connection again how many connection you will
maintain, right?
And so many times you have to create a connection, then close the connection.
So this is unnecessary kind of a load on a server.
So polling is not generally scalable right.
So that's why we don't go for polling.
Now there is a little bit enhancement over polling and what is known as long polling.
So let's understand about long polling or what is also known as pushing.
So here again we have a client.
We have a server.
So again client maintain a HTTP connection.
And it asks is there a message.
Now server will not response it.
Server will wait for particular threshold.
Let's say threshold is one minute.
So thread.
So server will wait for one minute and it will see.
Is there any message available for client.
If there is a message it will reply.
If not after one minute it will say no and then connection will close right after one minute after threshold
is crossed and once the and once again it will start messages there.
Now server will again wait for one minute threshold and if there is no message then it will say so.
Now what advantage we have like is, let's say in one minute here in the polling, it has called 100
times.
The message is there.
Message is not there.
Message is there, message is not there.
But now in the long polling, let's say in the one minute we are only calling one one time, right.
So this is little bit enhancement.
But still it is not scalable because you unnecessarily have to invoke a server and ask.
And for most of the time it is no right.
So this blocking.
So you're blocking a request right at a server side.
So that is also not scalable.
Like say now we are talking about billions of messages per day and so many millions of users.
Is it a feasible to hold the thread right and wait for this one.
So this is also not scalable.
So now here comes WebSocket scalable.
Now let's say WebSocket.
So can let's discuss about WebSocket.
How what is WebSocket and how does it solve the problem?
Right.
So again we have a client.
We have a server.
So first of all WebSocket is.
Bidirectional.
Persistent connection.
What does it mean.
So it will first maintain a connection.
Let's say handshake.
It will do handshake.
Server will acknowledge it.
Yes.
Let's do.
Then what it will do is it will create a bidirectional setup of this.
So it will be bidirectional.
Bidirectional means client can send a request also.
And server can also send a message.
So both now can talk to each other.
Bidirectional talk can happen.
And when I say persistent what does persistent means this connection will remain open.
So connection will not close, right?
Connection will remain open and it will only get close when one of them shut down the connection or
there is a breakage in the internet connectivity otherwise.
So HTTP what is happening in HTTP client?
Send a request server response and then connection break again.
WebSocket WebSocket is a persistent network.
Persistent network means connection maintain connection is maintained.
Right.
So connection.
So even if they are talking let's say ten message client and the ten message server but still same connection
on the same connection they can send.
So that's why it is called persistent connection right.
So here what we know that we can for the receive instead of using HTTP we can use WebSocket.
And since WebSocket is working for receiving then there is also no point of using for HTTP.
We can also use WebSocket for sending also.
So you got it.
Now one thing we cleared right for the chat server.
For the chat server, the clients.
Or you can say that the user user one.
User two is connected through which what WebSocket not HTTP.
Okay, I think till now it is clear.
Okay.
1 to 1 message.
1 to 1 message is what 1 to 1 messages.
User one needs to send a message to user two.
Now let's design this.
So I have a user.
Or client.
Right.
So there can be multiple clients.
So now I have a.
Chat server so there can be many chat server right?
Chat server one.
Chat server two.
And similarly there can be many chat server n and we already know that how the clients are connected
with the chat server client server one client n or user n.
Right.
So they are connected through WebSocket.
Okay.
Till now we have done this point.
By the way I am teaching you more stuff right?
So till now you have understood this.
Now consider this point right?
Let's say right.
So now let's say this user one is connected with.
Chat server.
Let's say I'm saying uh 100.
Let's say some chat server.
User two is connected with chat server 500 right.
Right.
So they have a connection maintain they have a open connection maintained with them.
Right.
Now user one want to send a message.
Send message to user two.
Hello.
Now chat server got okay I need to send a message.
Hello.
To whom?
User two.
Now how does it know that if there are thousands of chat server let's say 5498 there are thousands of
chat server.
How does chat server 100 knows that?
Which set?
Which chat server?
I need to pass information so that it will goes to the user to user two is connected with this chat
server.
So there is one more service.
There is one more service.
Called user mapping.
Service.
Right.
Or you can say that it's a sign kind of a user detector.
Or let's say I will say that user detector service.
Right.
So it has.
User mapping.
Multiple servers.
It can also have user mapping.
Multiple servers.
One, two.
So now what it will store.
So what information they store is user mapping service.
Store it.
Maintain an information.
That which user.
Let's say user one is connected with which chat server.
Chat server 100.
User two is connected with which chat server chat server 500.
Right.
So you got it.
So this is the user management user mapping service right.
Mapping it.
Maintain that which user is connected with which chat server.
Right.
And how it will be useful.
So here chat server talks to user mapping service.
So this is uh this mapping service is nothing, but it's a you can say that it's a zookeeper.
Right.
So this is you can say that a zookeeper.
If you have seen my previous video, I have explained about zookeeper in zero 2 million zero to million
how to Scale from zero to million video I have explained about zookeeper.
Zookeeper is a coordinator.
It provide a coordinate in a distributed environment between multiple multiple applications.
Right.
So now this zookeeper providing a coordinate between chat servers, multiple chat, multiple application,
multiple chat servers by maintaining a information key, which user is connected via which chat server.
Right.
So now how so this will store information like.
First how the zookeeper will fill this table let's say internally.
So now for I told you that user is connected with chat server with WebSocket right.
But for other services.
It can connect connect via HTTP.
Other services like user can do a login or let's say during connection.
Whenever the connection is established.
Whenever the client is maintaining a connection established.
So let's say you you are offline as soon as you are coming online.
As soon as you are coming online means connection is established.
As soon as the connection is established, you need to.
We need to provide a one server to you.
Which chat server?
It depends upon your geography.
Let's say I am from India, so maybe chat server which is nearest to my location will be assigned to
me, right?
So who take this responsibility?
It is user detector.
Or you can say that user mapping service take the responsibility of assigning a particular chat server
to a user.
Right?
So let's say that this user one is currently offline.
User one is currently offline.
So currently in this table only entry is present for user uh, let's say user two.
Let's say for example user two it is connected with uh chat server 101 let's say.
But for there is no entry for user one because it is offline.
Now user one is making a connection.
User one is making a connection.
And what it will do is it will assign one server user one server.
So let's say chat server 100.
So now it will create connection with this chat server 100 let's say right.
So now it will connect over WebSocket.
And Zookeeper will maintain a record okay.
So till here we are clear.
What is the use of user mapping service.
And now it user one is sending a message.
Let's say send message, right?
So my send message will be like send message to let's say it is from two.
What is the message.
Right.
Let's say or we can also have provider type uh or let's say type we can have is like whether it's a
group or 1 to 1, 1 to 1.
Right.
I will tell you what is the use of this type.
So let's say this is the send message request.
So now it will know that okay I need to send two let's say here.
In this case user one is from user two is we need to send.
So first it will goes to this chat server WebSocket which 100.
So web server 100 will know that okay I need to send a message to user two.
Who will who which chat server is connected with.
So now it will call user mapping service.
Right.
And it will read that.
Okay.
Tell me like which chat server I need to talk to.
Who will send a message to user two?
There is a message for it.
Now this will provide okay.
User two is connected with chat server.
This 1101.
So now what it will do is it will pass that information to that particular chat server internally.
And that chat server will take care of sending a connection message.
Right.
So this is one thing.
And now so this is I am talking about happy flow when the both the users are online.
Right.
So you got the usage of this user mapping service right.
Okay.
Now we want to maintain.
So one of our another service is functionality is we want to maintain a chat history.
Right.
So each service maintain a chat history except, uh, WhatsApp.
So now in this case, I am now maintaining a chat history.
So when we are maintaining a chat history, uh, chat history, we want a DB.
So whenever the send message is coming the request will goes to also.
DB.
So this is my DB layer.
Right now.
This is another important thing.
What DB you will choose what db SQL or NoSQL.
If you have seen my previous video with that you can easily identify which DB we have to use.
So first we have to identify let's say what are the read and write operation.
A user one has to read user particular user.
So let's say I am a user.
So I will open a user two chat and I will uh like what are the conversation I have with him or her?
So I will see the message, right?
So a particular user chat history I can see a particular group chat history I can read.
Group members.
Details I can see like profile picture and all.
And the member list, my user profile I can read.
So these are generally all the read operation are possible into the chat application.
And similarly what are the write up or write operation send message.
Right.
Uh update profile picture like this.
So now here if you see are you seeing any flexible query or flexible means complex joints or something
right.
Are there complex joints present?
Are complex.
Query or join.
You see in this read operation no right.
It's not.
Second thing.
So this is one hint no complex join.
Second.
Now we are talking about billions of messages per day right?
And let's say I have a long chat history with thousands of my connections.
Like I have thousands of members in my.
Chat history I daily do with over the time.
I have so many chat histories and let's say I want to search.
Let's say you want to search particular, uh, something called concept word.
So now the search capability is like in all the chat history, it has to particular find that, uh,
conversation where it has happened.
So means you need a low latency and low latency search capability.
In a very huge number of data, like it's kind of millions of data could be present for big who has
done a lot of chatting over the years and finding a particular word, all the chat conversation.
It is like low latency search capability is needed.
So based on the two hint, and we know that low latency search capability is the key point for NoSQL,
this is the key advantage low latency search capability, NoSQL provide that and it is highly scalable
and highly available.
Highly available.
So all these things and these are our non-functional requirement also.
So all these things hint into this mind.
We can know that we will go for NoSQL because we don't see much relation in our data.
So now let's go into the NoSQL right.
So now also one more thing If you see discord, right, discord and uh, some, uh, Facebook, they
also use NoSQL only Cassandra.
They use Cassandra DB NoSQL.
Right.
If you know that I have, uh, tell you in the previous video, there are four type of NoSQL key value,
uh, graph column wise, right, column wise and document.
So Cassandra is your column wise, right.
So it's kind of a, uh, maintain a column wise data.
So now first for 1 to 1, now we were doing 1 to 1 flow.
Right.
So for 1 to 1 how the table will be stored.
Let's say it's a message table.
So we will have.
Message ID we will have from we will have two we will have timestamp right.
So now let's say we have this.
So now in the NoSQL let's say we we can store the data into multiple servers.
Multiple servers.
Right.
So this is node one.
Node two.
Node three.
Node four naught five naught six.
If you have seen my previous video of consistent hashing and DynamoDB which is a NoSQL DB.
So it the data is stored horizontal scale horizontally sharded.
Right.
So data is sharded horizontally.
So means it is scale horizontally across the nodes.
So how do we partition the data.
So here our partition key is from n two.
This is my partition key right.
Based upon the from and to let's say my name is let's say from is SJ two is something let's say uh Hardik.
So this is can make a one key and and know that any combination of this from and two will go into this
node let's say any chat history.
So this is my partition key right.
And what is the use of message ID.
So message ID can be used for the sequencing.
So inside a particular partition.
Inside a particular partition.
Right.
So this is the partition key.
Based on this I can decide which node this record should go with.
Chat history should go now on a particular chat history now a particular chat I need to maintain a sequence
because ordering is maintained during chat.
Right.
So this message ID we can use.
Right.
And we know that SQL support auto increment.
But in NoSQL there is nothing like a no auto increment is not there.
Right.
So we can use something like let's say we can use timestamp to generate this message ID right?
So in a particular partition in a particular partition we can use ordering via message ID.
Right.
So ordering can be maintained via message ID.
So message ID is you can say that it's a ID generator.
But we don't need global.
Why.
We don't need global because maybe in another partition.
So let's say this partition is for this one.
This partition is for this one.
The message ID can be same.
Here it is 100.
Here it here it can also have 100 for example because sequencing is different here.
Right.
So ID generator can be used as a local ID generator.
Or we can use timestamp to generate a message ID unique message ID.
So you got it.
How the data is stored in NoSQL.
Because and in NoSQL has one feature that it is horizontally scalable means some data is present in
node, some data is present in another node.
So we have to partition the data.
So partition can be done on this.
So we can done on from and to.
And we need to maintain an order of a message.
So order can be maintained based on message ID we can use timestamp or local ID generator.
We don't need global ID generator like snowflake right.
So now you know that here what we were uh our diagram.
Yeah.
So here we use a NoSQL type.
Till now we are all good.
So now I have already told you about the happy flow.
Now happy flow is like.
Both the users are online.
Now let's talk about the offline use case.
So now what will happen in the offline use case.
So let's say now here in this example let's say this is user one.
This is user two.
Right.
So here user one has a record and zookeeper.
User one is connected with chat server one.
User two is connected with chat server two for example this is my let's say.
Chat server one.
And this is my chat server two.
Let's say chat server two is down.
It is possible that right chat server two become down.
Let's say this become down.
So this entry will be removed because now connection is broken between chat server two and user two.
So there is no uh, currently let's say record And also let's say that this connection is also broken.
Internet connectivity issue happened between user two.
User two now don't have any internet connectivity right.
So means this connectivity is broken.
Means there is no chat server is available for user two as of now.
Now user one want to send a message.
User one do send message to user two.
Hello.
So it will goes to.
Because they are connected via WebSocket.
It will goes to particular chat server one.
Now chat server one will goes to this one user mapping and it will ask that there is a message for user
two.
Can you tell me which chat server it is connected to?
So it will check it zookeeper entry that okay chat.
It will not find any entry for user two because user two entry was removed.
So it will say that user two is not even online.
There is no entry.
So currently what will happen is it will not able to send a message.
So it will put a data into the DB.
It will just put a data into the DB.
Right.
So currently no message has been sent to user two.
Now let's say user two is coming online.
So when user two is coming online through login so what will user two will do.
User two will first do login.
Right.
So now we have to build a login system.
So login system can again be used as a HTTP protocol.
So we can build this thing.
So let's say this is our client.
We can also have this like.
Our.
Login system right.
So login system also talk with user mapping.
So now here user two is trying to do a login.
So this is a HTTP request.
User two is trying to do a login.
And when the it is doing a login it will goes to user mapping service.
User mapping service and user mapping will service will find one's chat server for this user two.
So it will put one entry.
It will put one entry for the chat server to that.
Okay now you are online.
So let me provide you some chat server based upon your geographic location.
Let's say I provided CS three some different chat server right.
So let's say connection is again.
Now maintain.
Connection is again now maintained let's say but with chat server three WebSocket.
Right.
So now as soon as the user two comes online this chat server three will check its DB, right?
This check is NoSQL db and it's checked that for a particular user.
Are there any message available?
If yes, if there are any unread messages available, it will send them to this user.
So this is how generally the offline use case handle.
Right.
So now let's move to the group part.
Now in the group part, as I told you that NoSQL is maintaining a DB.
So there will be one.
Let's say group table or something.
So it will have group ID.
User.
Which user is sending a message.
User sending message.
Your message timestamp and all.
Now here what is the partition key.
Group ID is the partition key based on this group ID.
It will also have a message ID.
Based on this group ID.
We can partition the data between multiple nodes.
Right.
And message ID has the same usage that it will help to maintain a sequence between a particular partition.
Okay, so till now what we have done is this part.
So client uh, so client can maintain a HTTP request with user login service.
User login service can maintain its own DB like uh based uh, depending upon its data, user onboarded
time and also some relation it can maintain like user address or something, anything which is required
phone number and all these things.
Right.
And then user mapping service I already explained you they can maintain its table.
I told you right.
Zookeeper is maintaining a table.
So let's say they are maintaining some in-memory reddis or something, right?
And I told you that.
So this is HTTP.
So it is a load balancer in between.
It will pass the request appropriate service.
Then there is a client.
Client is connected to a chat server via WebSocket not through HTTP WebSocket.
And they are also connected with this one user mapping service.
Right now for the group there will be group management service also.
So load balancer will also have let's say something called I will also maintain one.
So this will also have let's say.
Group service.
This can also be a HTTP request.
What group service can happen is they will have their own DB.
Let's say they will maintain like uh When the group is created, some basic information group created
group members or it can even be NoSQL also.
Right?
So there is no hard dependency like group service.
You can create a group, you can delete a group, you can join particular group, you can add members.
So right these all group management can be one service which take care of the management of the group.
So this is responsible for managing the group deletion creation right.
Updation of groups.
So or it can be managed by this one.
Right.
So now but message in a group is happen through WebSocket.
Now what will happen here is now let's say this is one group.
Right.
This is one group.
This group has user one.
User two.
User three user four For for user.
Now user one is sending a message.
Hello to group to this.
Group one to this group one.
Now what will happen?
So first client is connected with a WebSocket particular WebSocket right.
So it can also chat service can also ask particular.
Group service that.
Can you tell me like for this group what are all the members.
So let's say the group service will send right.
So let's say it will ask.
Group service application.
Can you tell me that for this group one how what all the members.
So let's say it will return.
User one.
User two.
User three.
User four are the members of this group now chat see that okay.
User one is sending a message.
so I need to send a message to user to user three.
User four.
So now chat server will goes to the zookeeper.
It will ask that can you tell me like user two, user three, user four are connected to which chat
server?
They can be same or different and based upon the information, it will pass the request to respective
chat server and send the message and their respective chat server will send the message to a particular
client.
You got it.
So now we have done with, uh, group server 1 to 1 send or receive.
So through NoSQL we have done scalability, low latency in searching and availability right now user
authentication, logging.
You got it now.
Last left last seen and online offline capability.
This is also very simple actually.
So to maintain a large uh this thing there is a system called Present system.
This is one more system.
So what present system work is like.
So you have a client.
You have a present system.
So client send a heartbeat after let's say every couple of seconds.
So let's say after every three seconds present system get a heartbeat from the client.
So it says that heartbeat.
So it will record okay.
User one heartbeat received time.
So it will store the time.
Similarly for user two it will store the time and it will keep on updating as soon as it will get a
heartbeat.
Let's say for a particular threshold time, let's say for one minute it don't get any heartbeat.
So what it will know is okay.
No heartbeat received for one minute.
This is offline.
It will change its status to offline.
Last heartbeat.
Time.
Right.
So since after one minute there is no heartbeat happen, it will change it to offline, right?
And why this is necessary?
Now you can ask a question that.
Hey, in zookeeper I am maintaining a list that which user is connected via with chat server.
Right?
Why?
I can't use zookeeper to know that.
Is there any chat server is allotted to a particular user or not?
So if it is allotted means it is connection is active and if it is not allotted means connection is
not active, means it is offline.
Now let's say about this use case.
Let's say consider a tunnel.
You are going in a train and there is a tunnel is coming.
So let's say a user one is going.
So user one is online.
As soon as it goes inside the tunnel, user one become offline.
As soon as it hear it, become online, hear it become offline it become online, it become offline.
It become online.
Uh.
Here.
Offline.
Online.
So here, if you see.
And if you check that for a particular user, it will not say like online, then offline, then online
then offline.
So this will be a very bad user experience like every 1 or 2 seconds.
Watching.
Offline.
Online.
So that's why one system has a threshold value.
Like if one minute I don't give any heartbeat, then I will only consider as an offline.
So here let's say it has standard heartbeat.
Then it become offline.
Offline.
Offline is again a show.
It will show you as an online only right.
So that's why the system is used and that's where it can be have like presence system.
And it is also connected via WebSocket.
Client can send a request right.
So you got it.
Present system.
Uh so present system can maintain its own radius or something, or DB, or it can put this online offline
data here and the applications can use the chat server can use this to know the present system.
Right.
I hope you got it.
Guys.
Like uh what?
All the system we have, we have chat server, we have user mapping service, also known as you can
say that uh zookeeper present system to maintain uh online offline.
Last seen capability.
Right.
And we use NoSQL how we maintain uh distributed partition key.
So this is generally a high level design of chat application.
I hope you guys like it.
You find it useful, right?
If anything I missed, please feel free to ping me.
Like what, uh, part I missed or anything important.
You think?
But from my side, I try to cover everything.
Guys, I hope you like it and wish you luck for the interview, preparation and have a nice day, guys.
Bye.

--- Design Rate Limiter ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do a very very important question designed rate limiter.
But before going further, first you tell me in the comment that in which company you have faced this
question.
Right.
So with that being said, let's move and uh, let's see what how to design a rate limiter.
So first let's understand the problem.
Why we have why we need rate limiter.
So everybody I think knows of this right DDoS attack.
Right.
So here in DDoS attack what happen is attacker sends unwanted request to a server.
And each server has a limited resources Ram and disk space.
So everything is limited.
So now what happens is attacker send lot of thousands and even lakhs of requests in seconds that all
of these resources are consumed and the server becomes down.
And when the server becomes down, what happened to the genuine user?
So when genuine user do a request, their request will get declined.
So that's what is known as DDoS attack.
And to prevent this we bring the rate limiter.
And that's what it makes it.
The most important interview question that because as a backend software engineer you have to work on
APIs.
So you should be aware of how to, uh, limit a rate on APIs.
Okay.
So let's jump into the rate limiter part.
But before that before we do designing of this rate limiter.
Right.
There are certain algorithms which you should be aware of it.
Right.
Uh, without those it is very difficult to uh, come up with the design itself.
So let's there are five algorithms which you should know, right?
I will try to explain in a very simple and quick manner.
So first is token bucket, second is leaking bucket.
Third is fixed window.
Fourth is sliding window.
And fifth is.
Sliding window counter.
And this counter words come from fixed window counter, sliding window lock and sliding window counter.
So these are the five algorithm token bucket leaking bucket fixed window counter sliding window lock
and sliding window counter.
Right.
So let's start with first algorithm.
Token bucket right.
What does token bucket is.
So here understand with simple diagram.
So bucket as the name suggests there is a bucket.
So this bucket has certain property like capacity.
What is the capacity of this bucket to hold.
Capacity of what to hold token.
Let's say I say four.
So it can hold.
Let's say four.
Token.
Maximum.
Right.
If you try to add more token, it will.
It will overflow.
If you try to add more token okay.
And there is also something called refiller.
This is known as refiller.
So Refiller has a property that uh, that in 1 minute or 2 minute or three minute, how many token it
will add?
Let's say two token.
So this is all driven by configuration.
This is driven by config.
This is driven by config file.
Like we can change it when I say config file means these are dynamic values.
You can change it.
So token bucket has bucket which has capacity.
What it can hold tokens.
How much.
Let's say for example in this case four right.
And there is something called refill or refill.
Our work is to keep add tokens after a particular time.
In this case I'm taking that after one minute two tokens will be added.
If tokens are accesses means already four are there and one minute done.
So Refiller will add two tokens so there is no space in the capacity.
So those two tokens will get into overflow means they are removed.
So now how this token bucket is used.
So if you see that whenever a request are coming.
So whenever my particular request are coming, what it will do is it will first check.
So there will be first condition.
Right.
And the condition will be on the bucket.
Right.
What?
It will check.
Is there a token present?
Right.
If there is a token present, yes.
Then this request will consume one token.
This request will consume one token.
Let's say it has three token currently at present for example.
So when this request comes in, it consume one token and the count will reduce to two.
If there is no token, if the token is zero, then if there is a token has token no then it will request
will be denied.
Right?
So this is generally a small uh you can say that flow diagram how the token bucket works in.
So now you got this flow.
So now we can configure this token bucket like per user, per API wise.
Each user.
This is my rule for each user.
Three counter or three token.
You can say that three token right?
And for per minute, in per minute or in one minute right for post API.
Tweet post API let's say.
So this is one rule.
This is one rule.
So rule can be right for each user.
For each user right.
How many token available three per minute to tweet post.
So how we can do is like for each user it can be store some counter.
What is the counter or token that say currently it is present three and when a request come post to
it post to it.
So it will see that counter is present three.
yes for each user.
So counter is three.
So it will reduce the counter to two and it will put some timestamp let's say time.
When the request comes let's say 1001.
Right.
So now let's say there is another post to it request.
Come.
Right.
So what does rule says that in one minute three tokens are present.
So again user one.
So I am maintaining each user wise right.
So counter is still two.
So counter will get reduced.
Counter will become one.
And let's say time is still inside a one minute right.
So let's say 1001 something 25 let's say another post request come post with same user counter will
become zero.
Right?
And the time it came is again within a time limit let's say.
or 35 seconds.
Not one minute is completed.
Let's say another post.
Tweet.
Come again.
User one now counter is zero.
Now if you say counter is zero, now there is.
Till now Refiller has not yet run right Refiller let's say I am here saying that Refiller is Refiller
fill in one minute it will fill two token.
Let's say for example.
Right?
So till now, one minute completed.
No, one minute is not yet completed.
So this request will get counter is zero.
This request will not be entertained.
This is remove denied.
Now let's say one request.
Another coming is post at 1003 for example.
So now in 1003 what would be the counter refiller had added?
So 1001 means 1001 to 1002 N02 one minute 1001 to 1002 and 1002 to 1003, so it might have refilled
the counter, right?
So let's say the capacity was three, capacity was three and it was become zero.
So here at after one minute it will refill have added two token.
So out of three.
So counter become two.
Then another request and after another minute refill have run and it will add it two token.
So two token it will try to add but the capacity is only three.
So it will add one.
And one token will get overflow.
So this is become my counter and one request is coming.
Then it will say that counter is again three.
And the request will be processed.
So counter it will reduce one counter because of one request.
So it will become two and it will put timestamp.
I hope the what I wanted to show you that this token bucket can be easily implemented through counter.
Right.
So this is very easy.
And if you see that right.
One more thing.
I just wanted to tell you that whenever any request is declined, HTTP code which is return is 429 means
access request in a time limit, right?
I hope you got it.
The token bucket right.
Now let's go to the leaking bucket.
Leaking bucket is very simple.
Leaking bucket is very simple and very similar to token also.
So here in the bucket what happened is again it's a bucket right.
Leaking bucket as the name clarify.
So there is one.
There is one tab.
You can say that from where requests are coming right.
Irregular flow or sometimes more sometimes less.
And this bucket has a capacity.
Fixed capacity.
Right.
So it has a fixed capacity.
Right.
And out of this request which are coming in.
So these are requests out of this request coming in there is a leak.
So leak means at a fixed rate at a constant rate at a constant rate this request are processed.
So if the incoming request has more and uh or in the more rate than what we are processing, then there
will be overflow and that requests are denied.
Right.
So here the leaking bucket is implemented through queue.
It is implemented through queue.
So here this here what happen is so let's say when the request are coming.
So request will come and then it will do a check or it will do a check.
Right.
So is Q full.
So there is a Q present here which has fixed capacity.
So if Q is not filled no then request is added here in the Fifo form first in first out.
And from here it will be processed in a constant rate process.
In a constant rate.
So this is request one.
Similarly request two like this.
It will be added if the queue is full.
Yes the request will be denied.
And HTTP which code will be sent for to nine.
Right.
So you got it.
So here if you see that the only disadvantage of this algorithm is this is simple but disadvantage of
this algorithm is that there are certain are there are certain.
You can say that application in which the constant burst can come.
For example, take an Amazon Prime, right.
So maybe during day time the traffic is not much as compared to evening or night.
Right.
So this is a valid kind of scenarios.
In that case this leaking bucket rate limiting will not work because when the new.
So this is the new request and this is the old request is still holding in the queue.
Because these here it is going slow.
So this is a specific requirement.
So ask from the interviewer like what the application they are developing.
And do they require a constant rate.
Right.
So depending upon an algorithm.
Similarly if it is kind of an Amazon Prime this algorithm is not efficient okay.
So you got it.
The leaking bucket algorithm.
The third one is fixed window counter.
This is again very very simple.
Fixed window counter is a time frame.
Let's say we have 24 hour time frame right.
It divides into let's say particular time limit.
Let's say for example uh two 2 or 5 five minutes time frame, let's say 8:00 80580 ten right.
Similarly, you got it right.
So let's say this is my fixed window.
This is my fixed window, let's say what is that fixed window is five minute right.
And counter what is means each window has a counter.
Each window has a counter.
So fixed window is this.
And counter is let's say uh three means each fixed window will get a three counter.
Or you can also define this right.
So we have like you can change it from 3 to 4 4 to 5 right.
These are config derived.
So from five minutes you can change it to two minutes time frame right.
So I'm just taking this as a example.
So now when the request are coming request one.
Okay.
So three it will reduce to two.
Another request come within a time frame within a particular fixed window.
So it will reduce to one.
Another request comes.
It will reduce to zero.
Now another request.
Try to come.
Now here if you say counter is zero you can't add it more.
So this will be denied.
You got it.
So.
And again.
Again in the new window it will again counter is set and again it will be processed.
But it has one disadvantage right.
So this is a very big disadvantage.
Disadvantage is like let's consider this.
80580 1008 ten.
Let me make it clear.
810 815.
So this is counter three.
This also has counter three, right?
So now let's say at this point before this time frame finished, at this point there are three requests
come in.
So request one.
Request two.
Request three.
Right.
So it is still within a still within a time frame.
It is possible.
Right.
Counter is three.
And also let's say that within the second time frame request comes here.
Request one.
Request two request three.
It is possible right.
Three counter.
And it's a new time frame.
But if you see as a overall from the higher perspective within a 1 minute or 5 minutes.
Five minutes.
In five minutes it should be three.
But here, if you see in five minutes how many happened?
Six.
So in the edge scenarios, when the request comes on the edge, the disadvantage is the number of the
tokens, right.
Or the request can be double right.
So for which our system might not be ready.
So this is what the fixed window counter and its disadvantage.
Right.
And this problem is get solved by sliding window log.
Sliding window log has solved this problem.
Very simple sliding window log.
So sliding window log is very simple right.
So I think in DSA we have no sliding approach right.
Design one design sliding window.
Right.
So similarly in this case.
So here earlier we were divided into fixed time frame Minute to minute fixed time frame and a counter
right.
But now here the sliding window is.
First of all it is not counter, it is log.
Just remember this but I will come to this.
So what sliding window is now time?
Uh, the window slides.
There is no fixed time frame first.
And how we use a log for this sliding is I'll tell you.
So let's say first request comes in, let's say I let's say I will take uh for example three requests
per minute.
Right.
Three requests per minute is my allowed, uh, configuration.
Right.
So now what will happen I am using sliding window log.
So in the log what does we log.
We log timestamp right.
So now let's see how.
So now let's say a request comes per minute.
Just remember I am doing a per minute.
So let's say one request is coming.
Request one.
Let's say it come at ten.
10 or 10.
Right.
So I'll put a timestamp.
So it is logging a timestamp.
Now its size is become 110.
This is one I'll log it.
So I log the timestamp right.
So now let's say another request.
Coming request two at what let's say within.
So currently a window is there.
Right.
So this timestamp consider timestamp as a sliding window.
So so ten oh ten now window started let's say.
So what is that per minute three request.
So per minute done know from the last one.
And it is in a sorted form.
So now let's say this is come at 20 right.
So it is within a time frame.
Yes.
So it's my ten o 20.
It's within a window of one minute.
Right.
So three requests to size become two.
It's still a valid again requests come.
Third request come.
Ten oh oh.
Let's say 40 again.
This is the window till uh, this is my starting window.
Does one minute finish.
No.
One minute is not finished.
Right.
So.
And the request is three and the size is two.
So it is still a valid.
So I will log it 40 size will become three.
Right now let's say one more request is coming.
Ten oh oh 45 so it will log.
Ten oh oh 45 right now it will check does limit crossed from this is the starting right.
All this in sorted form, right?
This is still the starting point.
So does one minute cross.
No, one minute is still not crossed.
Right.
But can I, uh, entertain this request?
No.
Size is three and three requests are only allowed, so this will be declined.
So this will be declined.
But it will lock this one.
It will lock this one right now, let's say another request are coming.
Another request are coming at uh, let's say 1001 something at 20.
This is another request coming at 1001.
Right.
So now first of all, it is now if you see that it has crossed the limit now window is crossed zero
one window is crossed right.
Zero zero.
Now zero one new window started.
Right.
One minute is done.
So means window.
Window has to slide.
How it will slide from the top sorted it will remove, it will remove till it comes into a window.
It will remove this disadvantage of this disadvantage of this is like I told you, right?
Even the request is denied.
We are storing its log.
It takes lot of space because even the request is denied.
We are storing it.
Timestamp I hope you got it right.
So now we have one more thing is last is then after that we will do a complete design.
Sliding window counter.
Sliding window counter is.
So here now we have is sliding window.
Counter.
So sliding window counter adds two functionality.
One is fixed window counter plus Sliding window lock.
Window counter solves make use of this two approach, and we know that it takes an advantage of the
both.
So the in the fixed window counter.
The usage of the counter is very intuitive and very easy to implement.
And the sliding window lock.
The advantage is it solves the disadvantage of the previous one.
Right.
And during the edge it is possible that double the request can comes in.
So sliding window lock solves that right.
So sliding window counter is very easy to implement.
Let me tell you that how it can be done.
So let's say there is a time frame of let's say uh one minute rule is what is the rule in one minute,
not more than five requests can come, for example.
Right.
So let's say 801802803 and let's say all have a counter like in fixed window counter.
Counter is ten.
Right.
So there are request present here.
Request can be present here.
Request request request some request.
So some request could be here.
So now let's say a particular window.
So this is what used to happen in fixed window counter.
We have a time frame.
We have a counter right.
And now we are using the sliding window also.
So now let's say currently the time frame which is running is this.
Right.
This is the time frame currently which is running right.
So here consider this as the previous time frame.
And consider this as a current time frame.
Current time frame right.
So ultimate goal here.
The ultimate goal of the sliding window counter is to find the number of requests present in this window.
In this window, particular one minute window.
So we are calculating one minute, right.
So in this one minute how many requests are present.
Right.
So it is very very simple.
It's a normal math formula.
Right.
So here if I divide this into this current time frame.
So in current time frame we already know that two requests have already come two plus right.
Two requests has already come.
So now here we just need to find out how much how much request will here.
So it's a very simple formula right.
So you know that let's say this is 6060 interval one minute 60 interval.
And let's say this is present.
This sliding window, this part in the previous time frame is span around ten second ten interval.
So it is very easy to find out the number of requests.
So let's say 1234566 request.
Or we can say that in 60 interval six request 123456.
In 60 interval six requests.
Then in ten interval how many requests we know right six divided by 60 into ten.
That's what it is six divided by 60 into ten.
So this is what generally it try to find out the percentage here.
Try to find out the how many request will come here in this one.
How many requests are there out of total.
Right.
Once we know how many requests are there plus the current time frame request, then it will compute
that uh, does it less than five request or not?
Right now we have all done.
All done the algorithms.
Now let's come up with the diagram of this one.
So what all components we have seen what all components we have seen what all components we have seen.
Right.
So you know that in bucket we need counter.
Right.
So this is something we need to update fetch and delete counter.
Right.
So definitely we cannot use disk because disk are very slow.
So definitely we need something kind of in memory.
So Redis is the one we have to use to maintain a counter let's say right.
And token bucket we use counter in leaking.
We are using a queue right.
So we might need use a reddis.
And I also told you that we are using a config file in many place where we store the config.
All these are nothing but a config.
How many fixed window counter like in per minute?
Three requests per minute.
These are nothing but a config.
So we definitely need config also, right?
So now let's design the.
This one.
Let's say we have a client.
We have a server.
Right.
And we need to put a rate limiter.
Right.
So rate limiter.
So this algorithm should be hosted by someone.
Right.
So there are two ways.
If we host some rate algorithm rate limiter here.
Right.
And it will have the appropriate algorithm or or let's say we can have a proper rate limiter here.
In mid between a client and server.
So that depend upon the meeting or discussion with the interviewer that what he suggests, right, based
upon the company requirement.
So if, let's say, if client send a request and there is no gateway in mid, there is no gateway in
mid.
So can we we can ask that we can host the rate limiter algorithm here.
Right.
And let's say there is already certain concept like API gateway which do authentication and all.
So we can put a rate limiter algorithm there so that any request comes in.
It goes through our API gateway which is hosting our rate limiter.
And then it goes to the server.
Right.
So I am assuming that we are going with this.
So how we will do there is let's say we have a client.
Then client send a request to our rate limiter or API gateway.
You can say that rate limiter right.
And rate limiter will send a request to our server.
This is We know basics.
Now, I told you that we need a reddis to maintain a counter queue and all these things.
So definitely rate limiter also should have.
Reddis which will maintain like okay, this is the counter updation and all.
It has supported various features like fetch, update of counter queue and various things.
Similarly there will be some config files like config files.
So generally config files are stored somewhere on disk and.
But we cannot read config files directly from the disk.
So we have to maintain some cache in mid right because config files are changed very less frequently.
So it's okay.
Whenever the our application starts we will load the config file into cache and our rate limited.
Read that config file from the cache right.
So.
And based upon that algorithm, it will either send 4 to 9 or send okay or success.
Right.
So this is generally the very high level design of uh rate limiter.
But most important are algorithms in this realm right.
So you got it right.
What are things which we can do.
So here read this is like it is uh, so let's say one more follow up question can come is let's say
this is distributed.
There could be multiple rate limiter.
So this is rate limiter one.
Rate limiter two.
Rate limiter three.
There could be distributed rate limiter.
Right.
And client might have come here.
Client can come go there.
Client can go there.
So to answer this is always say that red is we will use red is because red is is what is like Centralized
data store.
It is centralized data store, so everyone has access to this one.
Now the follower follow up question can come is like Redis does not maintain atomicity.
Atomicity.
What and why we needed let's say for the bucket token bucket we are maintaining counter.
So let's say this is also read the count.
So let's say the client send a parallel request to rate limiter one, rate limiter two and both read
the counter.
Let's say currently here is two.
Both read counter two.
Right.
So that could cause an issue.
Right.
So then client uh interviewer say that if you use a redis which is a centralized data store, how you
will maintain a atomicity.
So one one of the answer could be like there are certain already solution present to bring.
So means we can add atomicity.
We can bring atomicity to the reddis, but the overhead would be little.
Bit latency.
Right.
But there are already solutions present which we can use it and bring the atomicity to this one.
We don't have to develop from our own.
Right.
Um, but the only thing is latency.
But if you say that.
Yes, yes, we can use this and we can bear the latency, then definitely we can use this.
Otherwise this is you can say that one of the limitation of having this and there are some little bit
loopholes.
I think it is pretty much clear to you and all this five algorithms and the high level design of it.
And guys, please do share it with your connections if you like it.
And I really need your feedback where I can improve and all.
So waiting for your comments guys and wish you luck for your interview.
Good luck.
Bye.

--- Design Idempotent POST API || Handle Duplicate Request by Idempotency Handler ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today we are going to design a handler.
Very very important question.
And if you see our high level design roadmap.
So all this green tick one which we have completed.
And currently today we are looking into the handling part.
So I am not making it right for now because concurrency handling another important topic is left.
So I will cover it into the next video upcoming videos.
But let me cover the handling part today.
So this is very, very important question and has been recently asked in Singapore based company top
product based company.
Right.
So let's focus on this question now.
First of all, before even jumping into handling, I want to differentiate between the order potency.
Versus concurrency.
So that no one should get confused between these two.
And then we will focus on this one at potency today.
So see what do you mean by concurrency.
So concurrency is like you have one resource.
You have one resource and there are multiple.
You can say that users trying to access that resource, for example in a book might show book might
show movie ticket app.
You are trying to book a seat, and many people are trying to book that seat in a movie theater.
So that is concurrency problem, right?
But what is it then?
It helps us to take care.
Of duplicate request.
Duplicate request.
Now what does it mean?
Now let's go deeper into Idempotency.
But I think you should not mix it with concurrency.
Concurrency is different.
Now let's jump into the dependency.
So what is dependency?
Say it enables client to safely retry.
A client can retry many times safely without worrying about the side effect of an operation.
Let's say there are many operation.
For example operation like let's say adding an item into the cart.
Let's say you are trying to add an item into a cart.
So this is one operation.
It enables client to safely retry an operation.
So let's say you are trying to do this post request add an item into cart.
You can retry any time.
You can retry any time without worrying about the side effect.
So generally, what is the effect of this operation?
It will create a row that yes, I want to add an item into this cart, but if I retry again this is
duplicate request I am retrying.
Again, it should not create another row.
It should not create another row because it's a duplicate request.
Right.
So that's what its definition says.
It enables client to safely retry an operation.
You can retry as much as you want, but in DB there will be only one row.
And but you can safely retry as much as you want.
So that's what is it is that's what capability Hydra handler providers understood the definition properly.
Now let's jump into the little bit problems and how we require to solve okay.
So first thing by default.
By default, get put.
Delete.
These are already impotent in nature, right?
These are idempotent in nature.
Whereas Post request is not idempotent.
And we have to make it ten.
Okay.
So what does it mean by get put delete.
So let's say you make a get request right.
You are client.
You are making a Get call to server.
Now any time you call get request get Get.
Even though it is a duplicate, will it make any side effect on the DB?
Right?
No, it will not create any side effect on the DB.
It will just retain whatever the data it has.
It will just return it.
Right.
So it is not causing any side effect.
What about put.
So again you have a client.
You have a server you called a put request.
Okay.
Update uh name from let's say SJ to let's say I'm trying to update my name from SJ to Shreyansh.
So first time let's say it changed.
It changed right.
It changed the DB from SJ to Shreyansh.
Now if I call put request multiple times put put put many times duplicate comes and everything.
Say update name from SJ to SJ to What will it do?
Anything.
Any side effect on the DB?
No name is already changed to Shreyansh, right?
So there would not be any cause you will do your DB.
Whatever the status, it will not change, right?
So it is idempotent no matter how many times you retry it, your status or db operation will not cause
any side effect, right?
Let's understand now.
Post.
As I give you an example, when I mentioned right post is not adopted by nature.
What what I think you already know by by now is how why post is not adopted by nature.
So you make one request, let's say payment Shreyansh is making a payment to, let's say Hardik, let's
say ₹10.
So it is a first time.
So let's say first time payment happen right.
So Shreyansh got debited like ₹10 and Hardik received plus ₹10.
But let's say because many duplicate requests comes in as two.
Hardik ₹10 again.
So two Hardik ₹10 again as J two Hardik ₹10 again.
So what will happen because of this post request?
Because post tendency of nature is to create a new row.
Create a new resource.
So it will create another time.
S j -₹10.
Hardik plus ₹10 for this one.
Again s j -₹10.
Hardik plus ₹10.
Like this.
So now if you know that for a for a payment system, this is a side effect.
So even if you retry multiple time, your DB should only have one record for this because these are
duplicate requests, it should not create multiple rows after multiple payments.
Similarly, the example previously I gave you of a add to cart.
You should only have only one item in a cart.
So these are the problems.
And that's what I told you by default.
Get put.
Deletes are already added.
You don't have to do anything in that, only for post APIs.
We have to bring the order potency nature to the post.
Okay, so there are two type of side effects.
One is sequential.
Another is parallel.
Okay, so let's understand this how the problem can come.
How duplicate can come.
Or I would say that how duplicate can come to duplicate.
For example this is client.
This is server.
Okay.
The first let's say trying client is making a post call.
I told you only with post we have an API.
Okay.
It make a post call.
Let's say add cart add item to cart.
Okay.
So now server started processing.
Server started processing.
But timeout happen.
It's happened.
Timeout.
But for client it's a timeout happened.
But server hasn't stopped processing.
So server is still processing.
Still processing.
And now it is processed.
Now it is processed okay.
So even though it is timeout server has processed the request.
It has processed the request properly.
but for client it's a timeout.
So it will retry.
It will do another post.
So now it's a duplicate request.
So it's a duplicate request.
Or you can say that retry because client got the timeout.
But now here if you see that server has already processed it right.
So now it's a duplicate request.
So we have to handle this.
So we have to take care of this scenario.
What is another scenario parallel one.
So again client.
Server.
So let's say client made post request.
And at the same time another request comes in here you see the sequential how the sequential happens
right after a timeout.
But the process has happened and then another come after it, but here.
What if two post requests come at the same time?
Both.
So this is the original.
And this is the you can say that the duplicate one.
Right.
But it coming at the same time.
It is possible maybe because of different browser.
Right.
And it may be going to different server.
There are multiple servers.
Maybe it's going to different machine itself.
Right.
So how to handle it.
How to handle only one request should be processed should be processed not two.
Okay.
So till now I think you are very much clear what is right.
What is its definition like out of this HTTP request get put delete post.
What are our already adopted in nature?
Why we need in post we have to handle the potency.
What are the various ways or use cases in which it is required?
Sequential, like this use case, and also in the parallel like this use case.
Right.
So now let's go to our.
Approach.
For.
Idempotency handling.
Now let's see this is very interesting part.
Okay.
So how do we handle idempotency in post request.
Answer is using.
Idempotent key.
Hey then you can ask hey what is idempotent key.
Don't worry about it.
I will tell you everything just for now.
Assume.
Assume that key is something unique.
It's a unique.
Or you can say that it's a Uuid.
Universal unique ID means at a universal level, this ID would be unique.
Duplicate ID is not possible.
So let's say it's any Uuid universal unique ID, any unique ID.
So we with that and we can treat it as a key.
And with id potency key we can handle it both these scenarios.
How.
Now before jumping into the how, let me tell you the few agreement.
There are two agreements which we have with the client agreement with client.
The first agreement with that client is client should generate the ID key.
Generate the key key.
The client should generate it.
Second for each operation For each operation.
New hydro potency key should be generated for each different operation.
You can say that for each different operation, new hydro potency key should be generated.
So these are the two agreement between clients and servers.
And the solution is depend upon this.
So now let's come with the flow how hydro potency key solves this problem right.
Then I will tell you how it can be enhanced to solve the parallel.
Okay.
Now understand this one first.
Let's say this is client.
So as part of first what it will do agreement is client should generate the Idempotency key.
So let's say a user is hitting a client.
Let's say some Post request, any Post request, let's say add item to cart, add item to cart.
It's using the client application.
Now the client what it first will do it will generate.
Either key.
Idempotency key.
Because this is a new operation which is user is trying to do.
And first step what client will do is it will generate an idempotent key.
Once the key is generated what would be the second step?
The client will do right.
The client will set this auto key.
In the request header.
and it calls server.
So now it calls to the server.
So first client go and generated the key.
Key can be generated by universal unique ID.
There are many libraries available which you can generate universal IDs.
Plus you can also append operation here.
What is the operation.
So that also you can make uniqueness.
Plus sometime also you can add timestamp also.
So it depend upon client to client.
So that's why I'm not going deep into it because it depend upon client to client.
But the generic solution which we can say is universal unique ID because it's always a unique.
So now first client will generate an ID key.
Second it will set this ID key in the request header and calls the server.
Now server got the request server got this post API.
Add item to cart.
Okay, that's what customer wanted.
And in the header it got the arrow key.
In the header it got certain arrow key.
Let's say arrow key is something one.
It could be anything number.
Right ABC12567 thing okay.
What will server will do after this.
So server will first do validation.
It will do validation.
What validation it will do.
Server will validate if.
Key is present.
Is present or not.
If either key is not present not present in header then what else.
What error code will return HTTP 400, which means validation error, which means validation error.
400 means validation error.
So first thing which server will do is it will validate those dependency.
Key is set into the header of this request.
If it is not it will throw error.
If it is present yes okay.
Okay.
If it is present.
So currently forget about this duplicate sequential and all just considered one simple flow.
We are incorporating the key right?
Then I will tell you how it solves the sequential and how we can expand it to do the parallel.
Till now.
All clear a request come client generate a dependency key and passed it into calls the API for the server
and in the header it set the dependency key.
Now the server first does.
The validation does in the header key is present or not.
If it is not present, send the HTTP 400 request if it is present.
Write what it will do.
Fourth step server.
Will read this dependency.
Read this order potency key from DB.
So server will try to see a is order potency key is already present into a DB or not right.
So let's say this is the first time this is the original request.
So currently I'm saying this is an original request.
First time it is happening.
No duplicate no retry first time.
So this is a definitely a fresh order potency key right.
And definitely server will try to read this in order potency key from DB that okay.
Does this potency key is present into the DB or not.
If it is not present.
So here.
So.
If either.
Key.
Present in DB.
No, it is not present.
Then what it will do.
What it will do is fifth step.
It will.
Put an entry into the DB.
It will put an entry in DB.
Just consider that it is a DB one DB right where it has a key.
So here I will put what is the key here.
Now IK1.
So let's say key one it is generated.
So key it will put IK1 right.
And it will also have a status of this one.
So for now it will try to read the potency.
So it will put a status created something right.
So each key has a life cycle ID potency key has a life cycle right.
So first is like let's say created.
Or you can give me any name or acquired.
Right.
And after that it has changed to consumed.
Consumed.
Or we can also say that claimed and after once it is consumed or claimed it cannot be reused, right.
It cannot be reused.
So this is we have to identify we have to just remember.
So if it is not present into the DB it will put an entry into the DB that okay Idempotency key is one
and it is created currently created Okay.
What if a key is already present?
Yes.
This is also in step five.
Right.
So only two things are possible.
A key is already present.
Or if it is not present.
But first time I am telling you that it is an original request.
So definitely it will goes to the no path, right.
Because it is not there and it created it created an entry.
Okay.
So now what will happen after this one?
Let's say it put ten entry.
Now after this what it will do sixth.
If call or if operation.
Whatever operation.
What is operation?
Operation was to add an item in I add an item into the cart.
If operation is success means item is added to the cart, right?
So what it will do?
It will.
Consume or claim the key, right?
So now it will consume or claim the key and it will change.
The status of this is to what would be the status change of this would be.
To let's say anything.
Whether you want to consume or claim, let's say it's a consume.
It will change the status to consume and what output it will return.
HTTP 201 so C201 is means resource is created, operation is success and resource is created.
Resource is created here resource is created means item is added to the cart.
Item is added to the cart okay.
So that's what 201 is.
Operation is success.
Plus resource is also created.
Okay.
So this is the original request.
Now let's say a duplicate is coming.
Uh, let's say now duplicate request is coming.
Okay.
So now it's a duplicate request.
So now let's say this is this is the flow.
Original post is happened.
So let's say this is happened.
Right now assume that timeout happen.
But internally server has done all these things.
Internally server has done all the validation and it was not exist.
So it created a resource.
But what will happen is what timeout already happened.
So it couldn't send 201 to the client because client is already gone.
Timeout.
And now client has done the retry.
Now let's understand this use case.
Now client is sending a duplicate request.
Right.
So here it will get generated from here itself.
So here user is not involved in the duplicate.
The retry will happen from here.
So from here itself.
So now client is making a duplicate request retry or client is retrying.
So now it is retrying with the same key.
What was the dependency key IK one right.
The previously we choose IK one.
So now client is retrying with the same key.
Okay.
Server.
Got it.
Now server will validate is IK is present into the header.
Yes, it is present.
So it goes to the step four.
Now server will read the key from DB.
So it will goes to the DB and check.
Hey key one exists or not.
So from DB it will check.
Yes exist.
So now it will come to this path.
Exit?
Yes.
So now it will check.
Our key status.
Right.
So there can be only two type of status created or consumed.
Right.
So here.
It will check the status.
What is the status.
So one is created state and one is consumed state.
So if it is consumed means the previous request which has created this row is already completed.
Because consume can only be done when it complete the all the flow or the operation is success and resource
is created.
It consumed and sent to zero one so consumed it will happen when the previous operation original has
completed its task.
Right?
So here we send HTTP 200.
What does 200 means.
Previous request already completed and no resource created.
So as 201 says that resource is created two zero is that the request is successful.
Previous request is one request already completed but no resource created.
Okay.
So in this case we need to send HTTP 200 but status is created.
What does created means?
There is already one request which has created this row, but it is still in processing.
Still in processing.
So otherwise if process is complete it could change to consume.
But it hasn't done means still it is processing.
So it's kind of a HTTP 409.
It means Conflict it conflict with the request means it is already.
Some request is already processing.
It is not yet completed.
That's why state is created.
So it's at 409.
Hey, it's a conflict.
Some request.
Previous request.
Duplicate request.
Original request.
Already working, not completed.
So please wait.
You can retry later.
So.
Understood.
This is the flow for idempotent key.
So this one will be properly handled with it.
Right.
Because duplicate comes.
And whether it will get yes or no.
If it is a previous one is already completed then it will return HTTP 200.
Otherwise, if previous one is already working, let's say it is still working.
While the second request comes in, it will send 409 conflict.
Now the follow up question will come what about parallel?
What about parallel request?
What about parallel requests?
Now what about this use case?
What about this use case?
So now let's see here two requests coming in parallel right.
So now two requests are coming in parallel here.
But with the same idempotency key.
So somehow.
Somehow from client to server two request comes in with post add item and Hydro one.
Hydro one.
Similarly, post add item two request comes in by the client.
Maybe different browser or something.
Now what will happen?
Client received two requests.
Validation for both the requests.
It will go for the.
Let's say it's going parallelly.
So validation they both will pass because it is present into their header.
So it will goes to this fourth step.
Now let's say both Parallely will read the key from DB.
So now let's say it's an original request.
Currently DB is empty.
Currently DB is let's say empty.
So now what will happen.
So what will happen?
Server will read the key from DB.
Both the requests.
Let's say it is request one.
Request two.
So both request request one and request two.
Both will try to read the account from DB.
And they say that okay for both key is present.
No.
So both requests will come here.
Request one.
Request two.
Okay.
Come to this place.
And what will do is since it was not there in the DB, both will try to read and both will create it.
I created write and ultimately the call is success and it will consume it.
So now here, if you see that because of this parallel part, both will pass out this flow and two resource
will be ultimately created.
Add card.
Add card two add card will get success 201201.
And but this is an issue.
We told that it should be able to handle this parallel also.
Then what we can do solution is very simple and we already know it.
How to solve this part.
The answer is mutual exclusion the locking part.
So we bring a lock.
So we have to identify our critical section.
So our critical section is which one.
This one.
So this is our critical section.
This part.
So this part is.
Our critical section.
So only one thread can go.
One request can go request one or request two.
Now two requests cannot comes into this.
Only one request can come in and you know right.
Critical section.
There are multiple ways to achieve a critical section is uh, you know right.
Mutex semaphore.
Right.
You can put a lock on an ID right.
And then first what you will do is it has step acquire the lock and then release the lock.
And I think it similarly has like low lock unlock something like that.
So this is nothing but a mutual exclusion.
So only one request can goes into this.
So we can bring some mutual exclusion here, right?
We can use any algorithm.
Right.
There are multiple mutual exclusion algorithms already present.
So but the concept is we will use this is our critical section.
Now we will put mutual exclusion here.
Let's say mutex for example or semaphore or some certain let's say synchronize anything.
Only one request can go in right.
Or synchronize anything.
This is our critical section now.
Now it will only one request will go in and it will check server will read the account from DB.
It's not there.
It will write one Idempotency one request one return it.
Status is created.
Then what it will do is it will do the success operation and it will change it to consume and it will
return.
Now once it return, then request two comes into the picture and it will check.
Server will read the key from DB.
It is present.
Yes, it is present.
And either it will return 200 error code.
Consume write and it will ask customer that this is already success, right?
And it will say that it's a duplicate request.
So by putting a mutex or synchronize we can take care of the parallel request.
So before we are almost done I think it is clear to you right how we can handle the sequential and parallel.
So there is one follow up question happen on this.
So let's say there are multiple servers which are in different maybe GEOs or cluster.
And let's say this is client.
What if this request goes into duplicate different server.
Server one.
Server two different machine.
Post request post request at key one.
At key one but in different.
Right.
And let us say this is the DB.
They have their own different geos.
DB let's say for example, this is and internally they do uh copy.
Right.
What if this is kind of a structure how you will do this.
Because by the time they synchronize DB synchronize then this uh, reading the id from DB and all,
how it will work, how it will work because they are pointing to different DB.
They are totally different clusters, right?
How it will work.
So the answer is using cache.
So I will use a cache.
And you know right.
The cache synchronization is much much faster than DB.
It's in milliseconds.
And db could be in minutes.
The synchronization.
But cache synchronization is very much faster.
So we can put a lock all this thing into cache.
Right.
So always remember this follow up question.
If the interviewer might ask what will happen in your DB.
How you will different cluster different DB.
How you will maintain this synchronization that I read because you are storing the DB, then how you
will take care then answer is cache using a cache cache synchronization is much more faster kind of
a near real time, right?
So with that it will solve it.
And with that we are done with our idle handling.
I think it would be super clear to you.
And I'm telling you, this is very, very important from the concept building.
Right.
And your day to day operation itself and from the interview perspective.
So okay guys, see you.
And maybe with I will meet you guys soon with the next video.
And till then good luck.
Bye and good night.

--- Design High Availability System || Active Passive & Active Active Architecture ---

Hey guys on this side and welcome to Concept and Coding.
And we have one more very very important interview questions of high level design.
And it's more of you can say that a theoretical but based upon this theoretical question a lot of implementation
questions can be asked.
Right.
But let's discuss today about this topic which is design high availability architecture.
Right.
So this question can be asked in many different forms or many different ways.
Right.
So one thing I said is design high availability architecture.
Similarly interviewer can say that hey Shreyansh, can you design data resilience architecture?
You know, right.
What resiliency means.
Resiliency means something which has the capability to comes out of failure.
Right.
So design data resiliency architecture okay.
Another way of asking is design architecture to achieve 99.999 percentile availability.
So you might already know that every company try to achieve five nines, right?
So that actually the five nines is 99.999% of availability.
That much availability is very, very important.
So how to design that architecture?
Another way of asking is hey, can you design an architecture to avoid single point of failure?
Right.
And another is, hey, can you, uh, tell me the active passive versus active active architecture?
What's the difference?
So there are different, different names of asking this question, right?
But if you understand it properly in any other names interviewer will ask, you will have no problem
at all right.
So ultimately agenda is we have to design a high availability architecture, which is available 99.999%,
which has the capability to even after it is failure, it comes out of it.
There is no single point of failure.
So we have to design such architecture.
Okay, so this is the today's agenda.
Very very important question guys.
Again.
And lot of questions can be built on top of it.
And as you know that questions we will see later.
So today let's understand this topic okay.
So now let's say first uh is the basic single node.
Right.
Then I will tell you what issue it has and why all these things are not achieved through single node
and how we can do it.
So first understand with single node is let's say you have a client here.
So this is my client right.
Let's say mobile is the right laptop is the right desktop.
Let's say.
So let's say it comes to a load balancer.
So I have a load balancer layer.
So load balancer does so many things.
So let's say load balancer is there.
Then it comes to our application.
Right.
So let's say it's a microservices.
So it's microservices layer.
So here I would say that application X application y application Z let's say just assume that it's microservices.
And there are many applications.
Right.
And there might be multiple nodes of each application.
Right.
And this application is connected to.
A DB layer.
Which is our primary DB.
Okay.
So it's a very simple.
It's a single node.
We have a client.
Client request comes through a load balancer.
Load balancer does a lot of uh things into it.
And it will pass the request to one of the, uh, let's say our application applications, uh, try
to connect with the DB, and DB will store the data right now.
Understand that.
What is the problem with this architecture now here what if this DB goes down.
What if this DB goes down.
There is a failure happen here.
Failure right.
So what will happen now.
So your whole application is now down.
It's down because any request will come in okay.
Till here.
Request is coming in.
Right till here.
Request comes in.
So let's say one of the request goes to the application also properly when applications try to reach
to a DB.
But DB is down so this will be a failure.
So neither read will fail.
And write request will also fail.
Okay.
So does it bring us a 99.999% availability?
No.
Does it has a single point of failure?
Yes.
It has a single point of failure.
Right.
So we have to avoid it.
Right.
So does it has a data resiliency architecture.
No.
Once it is failure it doesn't have capability to come out of it until and unless it has to be resolved
it might take hours or sometime it might take days.
Also we don't know.
Right.
So these are all the issues with the single node.
Now here we comes to the multi node.
And this multi node Has two types.
One is, as you know, active, passive, and another is, as you already know, what is that?
Active.
Right.
So now let's first understand what is active passive and how it, uh, resolve all the issues with the
single node.
Right.
And try to achieve this and we'll see that how active active is done and in what all case we can use
this.
Okay.
So now let's first go ahead with active passive.
Architecture.
Okay.
So now here every company has at least two data center.
So let's say it is data center one.
And this is data center two right.
So let's say two data center.
Right.
So data center, let's say one is in Mumbai.
And this is in Pune.
Right.
Just assume that one.
Okay.
So now let's understand this architecture first.
So let's say you have a client.
You have a client.
So client can be your mobile.
It can be it can come from anything.
Right.
So you have a client.
So then there is a load balancer.
Load balancer.
Now load balancer will pass request to either our data center one or here data center two.
So here data center two.
And this is our data center one.
So now here I have.
Multiple applications let's say app X app, Y app.
Right.
It's a microservices layer, right?
So similar configuration of application is also present here.
App X app y app Z right.
So there are different.
Machines of application.
There are multiple applications of X right.
Multiple applications of Y.
So it's a microservices layer right.
So it's the same configuration in data center one.
Data center two.
And here it is now connected with its DB.
Right.
And here Ah, we also have a DB, but now understand here in the active passive model, right out of
this two data centers or many more than two.
Also only one can be primary, one can be primary or there could be other names like only one could
be live DB right?
Or only one could be read write DB.
So these are all the different names.
Either you call it a primary or live DB or read write DB right and the other ones will be treated as
replicas right up.
The only one can be either a primary DB or live or read right, but others will be treated as replicas.
Right?
and the other one will be known as D, which is known as disaster recovery.
Disaster recovery Data center.
Right.
So out of that, say for let's say, uh, I am building one application.
I have two data center, one in Mumbai, one in Pune and the Mumbai one I have make it a primary.
Right.
So other one, the Pune one will be now treated as a disaster recovery data center and its DB would
be considered as a replicas.
So now let's say what will happen now.
So now let's say request is coming.
Request is coming right.
So let's say request first goes to data center.
One load balancer has moved to the data center one right.
So data center one Let's say it's the first time taking.
It's a, uh, right request right or post request right?
Right request.
So it will goes to the primary one because this is the data center.
One request is coming and it will be written properly here.
Okay.
Now let's say second read request is coming.
So again let's say read request again comes from client to load balancer.
Load balancer again move it to the data center one and the read request again for the data center one
will be taken care properly by the primary.
Now let's see what will happen when the request will traverse from Data Center two.
Now let's say a request come from client to load balancer.
And from load balancer it went to Data Center two.
From Data Center two.
Application.
Now what it will do is request will move to primary.
That's the difference.
So active passive model.
You have to understand that only one is primary right.
And whenever a request comes to the disaster recovery data center right then that application that layer
application layer connects to the primary DB, right.
Connects to the primary DB.
And primary DB will take care of storing the data right, whether it's a right or whether it's a read.
So now you know that any request which is coming to Data Center two, which is the Disaster Recovery
Data center, its application will move the traffic to the primary or live DB.
And from here Are.
There will be a.
Sync up.
Sync up will happen from primary derby to replicas.
Okay, so this is one way.
Now you can easily see that this is not very much.
Are you utilizing its resources very well because as you can see that.
Hey, uh, this DB is, uh, free.
Why?
We can't use it.
Right.
So there are one reason is one reason is Oracle MySQL Postgres.
And not multi master.
What does it mean by multi master means.
So Oracle MySQL Postgres can only right into one primary DB or live DB.
So you have to select which one is the live DB or which one is the read write db or primary DB.
Any.
You can call it by any name, right?
So whenever any write request comes, write or post whenever any write request comes in.
Oracle MySQL Postgres can only write it to the live DB, right?
So request has to transfer it to the live DB.
But now you can say that okay, right?
Right DB I can understand that Oracle doesn't support Multi-master.
It can only write to a live DB.
But what about read write can't it read from here?
Yes, it can read it from here.
And this model can be little bit improvised.
Like okay we can change the modification that okay.
Any read request comes in.
You can read it from here.
Any read request comes in.
You can read it from here.
Replica read only.
That's why replica DB also known as read only DB write.
But when any write request comes in, right?
So it goes to here.
When any write request comes in, it goes to the live DB.
Because I told you that Oracle MySQL Postgres are not multimaster, right?
They the write can only happen into one db which is marked as live or primary.
So any write request comes to the data center which is our disaster recovery data center.
Then any write request comes in we can move it to the primary one, but any read request comes in,
we can move it to here in the read only DB here.
Right.
And for the data center one all the read and write.
Both can be performed by the live DB itself.
Okay.
Till now, all clear.
Now you can ask me hey how it is a data resilience.
How it is, uh, avoiding the single point of failure.
Now let's see what will happen.
Primary DB goes down.
Now from this applications, what we can do is we can easily switch the traffic from here to now, from
here to here.
From here to here.
Disaster recovery data center.
And now make this now make this primary.
Now make this primary.
Now these are not more replica.
Now this is our primary read write.
And this will start taking the traffic.
So now you see that even our one DB is down.
We are still able to take a traffic because we have a disaster recovery data center, and as soon as
our main DB is down, what we will do is we will route the traffic of that data center to the one,
the disaster recovery data center, right, and change it to primary and read right, right or live
DB right.
And once this is up, we can make it either replica or read only DB right.
So you understood now the how it is providing the single point of failure, how it is avoiding single
point of failure and data resilience architecture for this one.
Now there are certain disadvantage, right?
There are certain disadvantage of this one.
You can ask me the disadvantage is that make it clearly so I have a client.
It goes to load balancer.
Let's say first it goes to Data Center one, which is my primary one.
Right.
So it goes to my application and application.
It's from my DB right.
Let's say it takes one second to process the request.
Now the second time when I make a request it now goes to Data Center two, which is my disaster recovery
data center.
Right.
It takes to an app.
Let's say I'm trying to write something even though it has a DB.
I told you that, uh, the write will happen to this one primary primary one.
So now here it says that it is in Pune and this data center is Mumbai.
So there would be certain latency add on.
So for this request it will not be one second.
It would be let's say two second.
Right.
So there is the difference in the latency.
So it's an latency add on happens if any request goes to the disaster recovery data center.
Second disadvantage is when any DB failure happens.
Let's say this failure happens.
Then application has to route the traffic to this replica one right.
And make it primary.
So there is a gap.
So let's say maybe 15 minutes ten minutes.
There is a delay.
So till then all our right will fail or any traffic which come to this, it will fail till this connection
is not made and this is not made primary.
Right.
So there would be certain time for which you will see a failure when this DB goes down.
Okay.
So these are the disadvantage of active passive architecture.
And now let's move on to.
Active.
Architecture.
I hope it's clear till now.
Active.
Passive is fully clear, right?
You will not forget, right?
How it's done.
Now.
Active.
Active architecture.
Now, see, I told you that Oracle, MySQL and Postgres does not support multi-master means.
But there are certain DB's like Cassandra and mostly NoSQL DB's.
They do support Multi-master, right?
Means more than one live DB can be present and it can write to them simultaneously.
So in here active active architecture, what is happen is you have a client.
There is a load balancer here.
Right.
And this is let's say data Center one which is in Mumbai.
This is my data center two, which is in Pune, right?
I have my application here.
So this is my application microservices here also I have the same.
You already know it now.
This is our microservices.
These are micro services.
Now it is connected to its DB which is primary or live.
Similarly it is also connected to its own DB which is also primary and live right.
And there would be a bidirectional sync up would happen in active passive only one directional sync
happen from primary to replicas.
Right now here, bidirectional will happen, right?
So now what will happen?
And any request comes in.
Let's say first time a request comes in from client to load balancer and it goes to data Center one.
Right.
Whether it's a read or write anything, let's say it's a read or write anything.
It can be anything from data center only from this DB.
It will take care, right?
Similarly, any request which comes from to load balancer to data center.
Two any read or write, any read or write any the same DB gonna take care of it, right?
Because this is also a primary now, right?
So now we are utilizing the DB fully okay.
So now here if you see that the major problem which comes in here is in this sync up part, this sync
up.
So here, if you see that this sync up looks easy.
But this is not this is actually the most complexity happens.
So use cases like let's say uh this is uh data center one data center one DB and data center two DB.
So any update happens here, it should goes to data Center two.
Any update happens here.
It should goes to data center one DB.
And it is also possible that a change can happen at the same time.
Right?
And same row same row same time.
And they both are trying to now replicate to each other.
And there would be a conflict, right?
And also, there is a possibility that there is a right happen here, right in data Center one.
But read is happening here in Data Center two simultaneously before even the sync up happen.
So sync sync up hasn't happened yet, but right happened here.
But read read is happening from here.
So there are certain complexity in maintaining the synchronization.
Right.
And there is a conflict resolution.
And there is a whole lot of things goes in synchronization part itself.
So maybe in the next video I will cover those or maybe in the future videos.
But to the crux here, the best advantage of active to active architecture is that we are totally utilizing
Using our resources very well in all the data centers.
Right.
So now any request can goes to anywhere so we can take more traffic.
We can handle more traffic for sure.
Right.
Because both can take care of read.
Both can take care of right.
In the active passive one, all the write operation is taken care by our primary right.
And all the read operation we can little bit uh improve it and read can also be taken care by replica.
That's why we call it read only DB.
So for read it's okay.
But if it's the right uh, let's say my application.
There are too many writes.
Too many, then definitely the all the load will come to one one primary DB.
So that is one more disadvantage of active passive one.
If, if your application is, uh, too much right gonna happen then active passive will not scale much.
Right.
So that's pretty much about active active and this active passive architecture.
And I hope you got a sense of it.
How we can design the architecture for this right to achieve a high availability.
So I have covered this now.
So in the high level design roadmap till at the potency handling we have already covered, I have covered
active passive and active clustering, active active clustering, concurrency heading I think I will
cover the next one.
This is another important big topic.
But before that I wanted to cover this one.
And then we will slowly will go this and then we will do lot of questions okay guys.
So that's pretty much from my side.
And thank you very much.
If you like it please share it with your connections.
It would be really mean to me.
And also please subscribe the channel.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
Good night.

--- Distributed Messaging Queue | Design Messaging Queue like Kafka, RabbitMQ ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today I am going to cover a very important topic distributed messaging queue like Kafka and RabbitMQ
which these two are the most popular messaging queues.
So the topics which I am going to cover are too much in depth.
I would say that from the interview perspective.
Right.
So first thing is very basic.
What is messaging queue, why it is needed and its advantages.
Now you should be able to understand because the interviewer can come up with so many follow up questions
like what is the difference between pub sub and point to point messaging queue?
Right?
And I will tell you the working of the messaging queue, definitely.
And both Kafka and RabbitMQ.
But the follow up question which should be ready is like what if queue size limit reach?
What if queue goes down?
What what, what will happen to the message which are inside a particular queue?
What if the consumer goes down?
What if consumer not able to process the message?
How the retry will work well and One how the distributed messaging queue works.
Because you know that in the world of microservices there are so many machines and also how distributed
messaging works, which is very important, right?
So if you have doubt in any of the points, I would highly recommend to go through this video because
interviewer can catch you in any one of the point, right?
And with this point, with this topic in high level design roadmap, I am making this topic as right.
Right.
So we will cover this today.
Okay.
So let's move ahead with our first point.
What is messaging queue.
Why it is needed.
So what is messaging queue.
Messaging queue is very simple as we all know.
We have producer which produces a message.
This message goes inside a particular queue and from that queue consumer reads it and process it and
process the message.
So everybody knows this message queue how this is like we have a producer, we have a consumer and we
have a queue which stores the message, right?
But now the question is why it is needed and what the advantage does it bring?
So let's say first use case, which is also you can say that an advantage is a synchronous nature,
asynchronous nature.
So for example I am taking a producer as.
So let's say my producer is certain e-commerce application where user is buying a particular product
or buying a particular product after as soon as you buy it, we need to send a notification.
We need to send a notification.
But user don't have to actually wait for that notification.
It can be done asynchronously.
So what it will do is it can send send a message in a queue that okay send notification.
This is the message send notification to this user.
Now we have one consumer.
Let's say our consumer is.
Send notification application.
So this is our consumer.
It will consume this and it will send a message send a mail or message anything to the user.
So this can be done in asynchronous.
So one thing is our latency got reduced.
So just understand that if e-commerce application directly talks to send notification application hey
can you send it right.
So there are couple of disadvantages of that.
First thing is okay if it goes in a synchronous manner okay.
Then definitely the latency will increase because send notification mail.
And this are very heavy tasks.
So definitely latency will increase.
But now you can say that hey why I need a queue.
Why can't e-commerce application send a synchronous here itself?
Why we need a queue.
So another advantage which queue brings is retry capability.
Retry capability.
Let's say if this message sending got failed let's say the server is down.
This is down right because of some issue.
This send notification application is down so it will not be able to process anything.
So what we can do is we can retry in the queue.
We can put it back.
So retry capability is added okay.
Okay.
So you got it.
Asynchronous nature with retry capabilities one use case.
Second.
Second point is the pace matching.
Now the same example I will use.
Let's say this is my e-commerce application right.
There is another application I would say that uh inventory management Ment application.
There could be another.
There could be another application application X, y, z.
They all want to send a message.
All want to send a notification.
Let's say mail.
And I have one application let's say send notification application.
Now they all will call to this one.
Now when they all will call to this one right now all they will call to send notification.
But see if they are sending ten messages per second, if they're sending 20 messages per second, if
they're sending 30 messages per second, and it can only process 15 messages per second.
So definitely if you see these producers are producing a message at a very faster pace, which consumer
can consume, right.
So this is another issue.
Which message queue help us to tackle how you all three put a message into a message queue.
Put your messages into the message queue.
Write and subscribe.
The consumer will consume it from in its own pace.
Right.
So this is what I tell is pace matching through queue in the mid.
You can do a pace matching right.
And let me tell you one more use case.
Uh like this will also help you understand why the message queue is very much popular.
So here if you see that there is a cap right.
So in your city you have, let's say a cap service provider.
Those who have so many caps right.
They all have GPS installed GPS installed.
So now let's say everybody is sending, uh, their location every ten second, ten second.
They're sending a location.
Hey, this is my car ID, and this is my current location.
My current location.
Right.
They are sending this message.
All the cards.
So now you can assume that the amount of data message is coming every 10s each car in a city is sending.
What is the car ID and what is the current location?
Right.
And let's say we have a consumer application.
Consumer application which uses this which need this data to create a dashboard like okay this is like
this are the car's location right.
So this consumer application cannot consume this much data so frequently.
And that's why it need a queue.
So this is the same thing.
The pace matching.
But I told you about from a different use case right.
Okay.
So now you know that why it is needed and its advantage.
Because these are all its advantage also.
Now let's move to the second point.
What is point to point and pub sub messaging type, right?
So now let's say that what is point to point and pub sub.
What is the difference.
So here I told you we have a publisher.
Publisher.
What does it do?
Publisher publishes a message in a queue.
So this is my message.
And from a queue there can be multiple consumers.
Consumer one.
Consumer two.
So in a point to point.
Right.
The whenever the message comes in that this is message A, this message can only be consumed by one
consumer.
Right.
So let's say if consumer one is processing this it will not be available for consumer two.
Right.
If consumer two is processing it it will not be available to consumer one.
So my point is whenever a particular message is put in a message queue, right in a point to point messaging
service only, it will be consumed or processed only once.
It can be processed by either consumer, but only once.
But in pub sub what will happen is so pub sub architecture is kind of like this.
You have a publisher, right?
And you have let's say this is Q1, this is Q2, right?
And you have one consumer is consuming to this queue.
Another consumer is consuming to this queue.
So here in the pub sub, what happens is whenever a message comes in right.
Based upon the logic, it put a message.
It broadcast the message to all the queues right based upon the message.
I will tell you like what are the logic.
So generally here it is called as exchange based upon the exchange logic, it broadcasts the message
to all the queues.
So what happened in the pubsub is, let's say a message comes message A, so it broadcasts the message
to all the queues.
Hey, message A is there message A is there?
Now this is also consuming message A this is also consuming message A so in Pubsub architecture a same
message can be processed by multiple consumers.
And in point to point, the design should be such that a single message should only be consumed by a
single consumer, right?
So depending upon your business need, you have to pick one like okay, how you want it to design point
to point or pubsub.
Okay.
Got it.
So I think this should be clear.
Now let's go to the major part how messaging queue works.
Let me tell you first Kafka and then I will tell you the RabbitMQ right.
They are very very similar right.
Few or Few difference, I'll tell you.
So let's say that how messaging queue works.
So let's first understand the very popular Kafka and very, very important from the interview perspective
before jumping into Kafka.
I will tell you what are the components involved as we know producer.
Second is consumer.
Third is consumer group.
Fourth is topic, fifth is partition, sixth is offset, seventh is broker.
Then we have cluster.
Then we have zookeeper.
Okay, so Kafka has so many components.
Now you will say that, hey, why?
What we have till now covered is publisher, consumer and Q why Kafka has so many thing.
Don't worry.
It's very simple, I'll tell you.
Let's first see its architecture, how it looks like, and then you will see.
So here we have a.
Producer or publisher.
Just say anything right.
So we have a producer or publisher right now.
Then we have a broker.
So publisher.
Talks with broker.
Now what is broker?
Broker is nothing but a Kafka server.
You can also say that it's a Kafka server.
Whenever you start Kafka Server it is known as broker.
Okay.
Now what this broker has.
So you know that broker is nothing but a server.
Kafka server.
Now, once you started, Kafka Broker is created.
Now this broker what does it has.
Broker has.
Topic broker has.
That's a topic.
It has topic let's say give it a name.
Every topic also has a name.
Let's say it's a topic a write.
A broker can have many such topics.
So it can have many such topics.
Topic x, y, z.
Let's now concentrate on a particular topic right now.
What does insider topic will have right?
So inside a particular topic we have partition.
It can have many partition.
So let's say every partition has a name.
So it has partition let's say zero Partition one.
Partition two.
Partition any partition it can have based upon the business need.
Let's say it has partition one.
I have created only two partition, but partition can be many.
Right.
So inside a topic we have partition.
Inside a partition we have offsets, which is nothing like a queue.
Right?
Different partition can have like a different length.
Right.
And offset start with zero like a queue 01234567.
Right.
Similarly 01234567.
It can be different also.
Right.
So partition has offset.
Now what happen is consumer read from the partition.
So you have one consumer because the ultimate data is stored inside a partition only right partition
only.
So consumer reads from the partition.
Right now, each consumer is part of one consumer group.
Each consumer is part of one.
Consumer group.
Right.
So consumer group can have many consumers.
So let's say a consumer one.
There can be a consumer two.
Right.
Similarly there can be many consumers.
So there can be a multiple groups.
Consumer group, consumer group two.
Similarly it will have consumer one, consumer two okay.
Now the consumer inside a particular group.
Right.
They have uh, certain uh, you can say that uh logic that they do not uh, the same partition.
They do not uh, you can say that, uh, share.
So let's say if a topic A has two partition partition zero.
Partition one.
Right.
So inside this consumer group one this is consumer group two.
So consumer group one we have two consumer.
So let's say consumer one is using partition zero.
So consumer two will take partition one right.
But this is not possible.
Partition zero is also taken by consumer two.
That is not possible within a particular consumer group within a particular consumer group.
Different partitions are read by different consumer right.
But this is possible.
But this is possible that different consumer group two the consumer one can read this.
Right.
And this one is read by this.
So this is possible because now it's a different group.
So it's a different group.
So means this consumer can still go for topic a partition zero and this consumer two can go for topic
A partition one right.
But within the same consumer group they always read different partition of a particular topic.
But I will go in more detail.
But first I wanted to tell you how these different components interact with each other.
Right.
So now you understand this.
Now two things left cluster and zookeeper.
Now you know that.
So now what I told you is that we have a producer.
Producer talks to broker.
Broker has topic.
Topic has partition.
Partition.
Zero.
Partition one.
Or they can have another topic.
Topic two.
Another partition.
Right.
So in a cluster there can be.
So this is broker one.
There can be many broker like this.
So this is broker two.
Broker three.
Broker four.
Right.
So this is different.
Broker means different.
Kafka server running in different machine.
So let's say this is in node one or machine one.
This is running in node two.
Machine two this is running in node three.
Some other machine node four some other machine.
So a group of this is called a cluster a group of this is called cluster right.
You got it.
What is mean by cluster.
And then we'll call zookeeper.
What is mean by zookeeper is so different brokers how they will interact with each other.
Then we have something called zookeeper.
Zookeeper helps them to interact with each other.
All the brokers talk with zookeeper and everybody knows that okay, this partition, this topic is inside
which broker?
Everybody knows it through what through?
Zookeeper.
Zookeeper helps our internal communication that okay okay.
This topic one this partition inside which broker.
Got it.
I'll tell you the zookeeper need also like so now at least now you know high level architecture of Kafka.
Now little bit goes one step deeper.
Let's say how a flow comes in.
One message comes in.
How it works and how it will take care of all these things.
Message sizes limit, message goes down and consumer goes down.
All those things.
Let's go in depth and how this message works.
So now let's go design a messaging queue producer producer publisher.
One message message has certain things.
So this is the message format.
So message has key value Partition topic.
Right.
So it has these four things.
Value is nothing but the actual message.
This is your actual message, right?
Key is something you can say that it can be string or ID or anything.
I told you an example of the car, right?
Uh, the each car is sending their location so you can say that car ID, car ID is nothing but a key,
right?
So this is this is you can say that it's a mandatory topic is mandatory, like in which topic you want
to publish the message.
So topic name.
So here you will put a topic name right.
So these two things are these two things are not mandatory.
And I will tell you why how this will work.
So now any certain message comes.
Now let's understand this with that particular topic.
So let's say in a particular topic.
Topic A you have I'm taking an example of three partition for say partition zero.
Partition one.
Partition three.
So let's say a topic A has three partition.
And this message message.
Let's say first use case message has passed certain ID.
So message has let's say key is my 1234567.
Certain key it can be string also.
So it compute a hash of it.
It compute a hash of it.
Right.
And I told you that it knows that okay which topic name it has to put.
So topic is topic A right.
So now after this key it will take out okay.
After computing the hash okay.
It see that okay which partition it points to based upon the key hashing, it will push the data into
a particular partition.
But I told you that key is not mandatory.
What if this key is empty?
Then it goes and looks for the partition.
Have you defined a specific partition itself?
Okay.
Let's look.
Say if key is empty then it goes and look for okay.
Have you defined a particular partition itself.
Then it will check okay.
Partition is defined as let's say p one.
Then it will directly put into this topic p one itself.
So it will put a message here.
But I told you that this is also not a mandatory right.
So what happen if this is also empty priority partition is also empty.
Then how it will decide in which partition message will go.
Then if this is empty, this is also empty.
Then it will follow the round robin whenever the message comes.
So message one goes here.
Message two goes here.
matches three goes here, then message four goes here.
Message five goes here.
Message six goes here.
So in a round robin fashion it will choose the partition.
Understood.
So I think this one is clear, right.
Right now I'll tell you very very important part of this is offset.
This offset is very much important in Kafka.
And you have to understand it better.
Now I told you that consumers are reading it from this is consumers are reading it from partition.
Consumers are reading it from partition.
This is consumer group right.
So this is consumer group one and this is consumer one.
Let's say I have only one consumer.
For example this is reading from partition zero okay.
Now and I told you that we have a zookeeper also.
Now what does this offset tell?
Offset?
Tell that till where?
The consumer has read the message.
Right.
So zookeeper keeps this like okay this is the consumer one.
Consumer one.
And consumer group is a let's say this is consumer group A inside this consumer group a consumer one
is the one.
It is reading.
It is reading a topic.
Topic is a partition is uh 0P0.
Partition is p zero till where it read.
So there is something called committed.
Committed offset variable.
Let's say committed offset variable is three.
So means till index three.
Till index three.
This is successfully read only index for and more if there are more.
These are unread.
So you got it.
What does committed offset means three means till three.
It is properly read only from four.
There are unread messages are present.
Right?
So zookeeper keeps this data for all the consumers, all the consumer group consumers.
Okay.
This is the consumer group.
This is the consumer.
It is uh, reading for this topic, this partition.
What is the committed offset.
Okay.
And I will tell you why this is required okay.
So now you got it committed offset and why this offset is important.
Now understand this first part.
What uh, let's say it has two two consumers.
Let me have two consumer.
This is consumer two consumer two.
Now understand that use case this Is this consumer goes down.
It got filled.
What will happen?
Because it is taking the responsibility of reading the partition zero now goes down.
So what will happen is what Kafka will do.
Kafka will pick from this consumer group, from this group, from this group A it will pick the second
consumer.
Right.
Because this consumer group has multiple consumers.
So if one goes down, it picks another consumer, which is free.
You can say that.
And what it will do is it will check okay.
The consumer which is goes down.
What is its last committed offset.
It says three okay.
Till three.
It has properly successfully read.
So now it will change it from here.
So from this linking it will create a it will be processed.
Partition zero will now process via consumer two and it will start reading it from four only because
till three it is properly read.
So now you know why committed offset is used and why consumer groups are used.
Because inside a particular consumer group, if there are more consumer and if one goes down, another
consumer can come up, which is free, and it will start consuming the data from where the previous
one left off, right.
So that is why consumer group is required.
So I think I hope you got this why consumer group is required.
You I think you know why consumer group is used.
You know like why producers.
What is the role of producer.
Right.
You know that okay topic topic is nothing but a you can say that placeholder for the partition.
Right.
So topic is nothing but a placeholder for partition.
It can have many partition.
So I think, you know topic now you know partition very well now.
Okay.
Partition is the place where actual message reside.
Right?
So it is nothing but actual data store where the data stores.
Now you understand what is the use of offset okay.
Offset is used to keep track of okay what all messages are read what are are yet to be read right using
committed offset variable now broker you understand right.
So broker is nothing but a server.
Now there is one more thing I will tell you broker.
And with the help of cluster understand this part.
This is very very important which help you answering so many questions.
I told you that this is a cluster.
This is a cluster, you know.
Right.
What is cluster?
Cluster is a cluster is a tell me cluster is a group of broker.
Let's say it's a broker one.
It's a broker one lets me take an example that we have three brokers.
Broker two.
Then we have broker three.
Let's say this cluster have three.
Broker right.
And let's take another example.
Let's take is we have one topic.
Topic one.
And this topic has let's say two partition partition.
Zero partition one.
So how the data is stored in a brokers.
Let's see this.
So let's say broker one has.
Topic one and it has its partition Zero.
Broker two has.
Topic one.
But what?
Partition.
Partition one.
So one thing.
You now know that even a particular topic inside a particular topic, even the partitions can reside
into different Kafka servers, right?
So see topic one, topic one.
But in different Kafka servers.
Kafka server one, broker one is hosting partition zero.
Broker two is hosting partition one, right.
But now you can ask hey, like how it will?
What if this partition goes down?
Partition zero goes down.
What will happen to the message which inside it.
Right.
So that's where we have a replica inside that.
So we have replica.
So now you can say that this is a replica.
Topic one partition zero.
This is the replica.
Similarly, for this topic, one replica let's say it is hosting its replica is here.
Topic one.
Partition one.
This is its replica.
This is its replica, right?
This is its replica.
Okay, so those who are not replica, they are called as leader.
They are called as leader.
So here inside broker one, this partition zero for topic one here is leader and its replica.
It is also known as followers followers.
Similarly, in the broker two topic one partition, one is leader and its replica is stored in broker
three, which is known as followers.
So all read and write Happens in through leader, right?
And whenever the leader goes down, whenever the leader goes down, then the replica takes over and
become a leader.
So now you got it.
The first priority is always a leader.
Whenever somebody is reading from partition particular partition, let's say message comes right.
Hey, I want partition zero.
So it will goes to the topic one.
Partition zero always goes to the broker one because this is leader right.
It will not goes to the broker to this replica.
Follower one.
Once the leader is down then only the follower will take over, right?
And follower.
So let's say this is my leader.
This is partition zero leader and this is partition zero replica which is also known as follower.
So follower always follow leader.
Any new message comes in, it takes it and also add in its queue also.
So that's how it keep on syncing itself from the leader.
Any new message comes in it.
Keep on reading this leader and keep adding a message.
So it's a following the leader.
Okay guys.
So now you got it right.
So now I think you can answer this thing.
Okay.
So you understand how this Kafka works.
Now you know that what happened the size queue size limit is reached.
So what we will do, we will have different brokers.
Right.
Because a particular machine has limited size, let's say even the partition maximum, what you can
have in a particular machine.
Let's say you have one machine.
What is the maximum limit is it's whatever the limit of this machine.
So how we will increase it.
So we will have a multiple broker.
Broker one.
Broker two.
So we will increase it, right?
Second is what happens to message when Q goes down.
When a Q goes down nothing will happen to the message.
So when whatever the leader goes down, the follower becomes the new leader and it is syncing with the
leader.
So it has all the messages, right?
What happens when consumer goes down?
This is very interesting.
Right?
So I have already told you that when consumer goes down, when consumer goes down, another consumer
take over, another consumer takes over from the consumer group.
So that and it can start from that particular offset itself.
Right.
So this is also done.
Now another part is can you answer this.
What happened when consumer not able to process message.
Now let's discuss this.
Not able to process message.
How what will happen?
So let's say this is a cue.
This is a cue.
Or let's say we are talking in terms of partition right.
So let's say this is a partition.
Partition is read by consumer.
Consumer one inside a particular consumer group okay.
Inside a particular consumer group.
Consumer.
So let's say the message one is a buggy.
This is a buggy message.
Something is not wrong with the message.
Right.
Let's take this example.
So now consumer one picks this message message one.
And let's try to process it right.
Currently let's say it has its committed offset is let's say this is index.
This is index let's say six.
This is 43210.
So let's say committed offset is currently six.
Till here it is properly done now seven.
Currently processing offset is seven.
It is processing the seventh offset message.
But it got failed.
It got failed.
This because this is a buggy message.
It cannot be processed.
Now what will happen is let's say we can set okay every message we need to do three times.
Retry.
We can add this capability into the partition or topic.
Right.
Every message I need three times.
Retry four times.
Retry five times retry.
So what it will do is it will not increase its commit offset.
Right.
So again when it will pull the data it will okay.
Six till six is done.
It will again send a seventh and it will increase its retry Count.
Second time retry.
Third time.
Retry.
So when a particular retry limit is crossed, what it will do is it will put into another queue.
It will put into another queue which is known as failure or.
Or dead letter queue.
Okay.
So let's say retry is also finished right.
So committed offset is not increased.
Retry is also finished.
What it will do is it will put the message one into failure one or dead letter queue.
Right.
And it move forward okay.
Committed offset seven I am done like till seven I'm done.
Now give me some new messages right later on somebody can go through this queue and read it properly.
Okay.
What happened to the message.
Improve it and again put it back to a particular working partition okay.
So this is how retry happens.
And if a particular retry fails and this is how it is put into a dead queue or failure queue.
Now very very important thing right.
I will tell you about RabbitMQ also quickly if you are interested.
Right.
But I'll tell you that.
Kafka is pull based approach.
Pull based approach RabbitMQ is push based approach.
Pull based approach means here consumer is polling.
Hey, do you have any new data?
Do you have any new message?
Do you have any new message.
Right.
So Kafka is pull based approach RabbitMQ is push based approach here the partition.
Or you can say that in RabbitMQ we call it Q.
So Q pushes the message as soon as the data message comes in.
Right.
So remember this RabbitMQ is push based approach.
Kafka is pull based approach.
Okay.
So I hope you are properly clear with at least Kafka why the producer is used.
Why consumer is used, what is the use of consumer group and how it helps.
Right.
What is the use of topic.
Partition.
Offset.
Broker.
Cluster.
Zookeeper.
And also I hope you would be able to answer properly how retry works.
Different ways to retry, right?
I have told you Kafka one.
I will also tell you about the how the RabbitMQ works distributed.
You got it right.
Different brokers called cluster and all.
Now let's go to the RabbitMQ one.
I am pretty much sure you have to watch it at least two times.
Uh, to link all these things.
It's a big topic and it's a favorite topic of the interview.
Rabbit MQ is exactly same as Kafka, but minor difference, I'll tell you.
Here we have producer.
Producer talks with an exchange.
So let's say this is something called exchange.
I'll tell you what exchange does.
So exchange is binded with.
Here we have a binding of binding of routing key.
Right.
So exchange is binded with the q.
Q let's say q one.
Similarly it binded with another q this topic.
Q two this exchange is binded let's say with routing key one.
Whenever the routing key once comes in, it move to Q one.
Whenever the routing key two comes in, it will move to Q two, right?
Similarly, there can be multiple exchange.
Exchange one.
We can have exchange two.
Right.
Similarly it will have binding also.
Let's say routing key two comes in.
It will put to the Q two.
Routing key three comes in.
It will put to the Q three right.
So we can have this one.
And here we have consumers.
Consumer one.
Let's say consumer two.
Consumer three.
It might be consuming this also right.
So we can have many consumers.
So this is generally the architecture of RabbitMQ.
So here you need to understand about this is the exchange.
Different type of exchange are available.
So there are fun thing is fan out fan out exchange.
So fan out exchange means let's say a message is coming here.
Message.
A message is coming here.
So in the fan out approach.
Fan out exchange.
What it will do is it will push the message to all the queues which are associated with this exchange.
It will push message A here and also to this queue message A here.
So fan out is simply broadcasting to all the queues which are related with this particular exchange.
Then second comes is direct direct exchange.
Direct exchange means let's say if a direct exchange means routing key is exactly matching.
So this is a message this has let's say key is one.
So now this exchange or direct exchange will say that okay routing key is one put into the queue one.
So it should be exactly matching.
Which one.
A message key and the routing key.
That's okay.
If it is a message key is one.
And the routing key is one.
It has to be pushed to Q one.
That is called direct exchange.
Another one is called topic exchange.
In topic exchange you can use wildcard right.
You can put that okay.
Uh, if star 123 something comes here.
So means even if it is, comes as like a India underscore 123 means again it will put to this Q so you
we can put a binding in this way.
Right.
If anything matches in the wildcard using a wildcard it bring a wildcard capability.
And based on that it pushed the message to a particular queue.
We can define a binding key like this.
Star one two, three.
And if it has come let's say India underscore 123.
Right.
So if it is a topic exchange, what it will do is it will consider this as a wildcard.
Right.
If it's a direct this is not even allowed.
Wildcard is not even allowed.
Okay.
You got it.
RabbitMQ.
So now let's say the last before even going let's say if any message consumer is not able to process
here.
Here we don't have any offset concept.
Here we don't have any offset concept right.
What happen is let's say consumer one is reading a message one and it's not able to process it.
Right.
What it will do is it will recue it to the back of the queue.
It will put message one recue again there in the Kafka.
We handle it through offset here.
What will happen is we have the capability to recue it back.
Right.
It can try multiple rescue.
Retry one, retry two, retry three.
If not, it can put into a queue if retry finishes off.
Okay, but there is no concept of offset.
And I told you that Kafka is work on push approach, not pull approach.
So whenever the data is present it will push to the consumer.
Okay, so this is the RabbitMQ and Kafka.
And I told you the different ways uh questions can come into the interview.
So you should be very much aware of it.
And I hope we are good with this messaging queue.
Any doubt please ping me on comment section or follow or ping me on the LinkedIn.
I will definitely get back to you.
So with this we are on track, right?
So we still have so many things to cover and we have covered a lot.
Yeah okay cool.
Thank you guys.
See you soon.
Bye.

--- Proxy vs Reverse Proxy ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to cover the another topic of system design which is proxy servers.
Right.
So I'm making it tick.
And let's continue.
So here are the proxy server which I am going to tell you today.
Like what is proxy server.
What are its different types of proxy servers.
Then after learning this this three questions should come to your mind.
Otherwise it will uh, get confused when in the interview they asked.
Right?
So mostly if this three differences are not clear, it will create a lot of confusion.
So that's what I'm trying to say that once you learn this, this thing should automatically comes to
your mind, hey, what is the difference between VPN and proxy?
They looks very similar.
What is the difference between load and load balancer and proxy firewall versus proxy because they are
very, uh, sometimes become very similar.
Right.
So we have to understand the difference properly okay.
So let's understand first what is proxy server.
Okay.
So let's take an example to understand that.
Let's say I'm taking an example.
Let's say a small child right.
And this small child wanted something uh let's say a chocolate.
So this is a shop which sells chocolate.
So a small child want this chocolate.
So what it will do is it will ask its parents.
Right?
Let's say it's ask his mom.
Hey, I want a chocolate.
Mom goes to a shop, takes the chocolate and give it to a child.
Right?
So now you see here the child.
Ah, child is not talking directly to a shopkeeper, right?
Child is talking to his mom, which it trusts.
And in that case, the mom goes outside.
Take out what is the required data here.
In this case, it's chocolate and then give it to its child.
So here in this case, the mom acts as a proxy.
Okay, so now I think you understand what is proxy.
Proxy is like working, taking a request on someone's behalf.
So now here the mom is taking a request on behalf of her child.
So mom is acting as a proxy for this shopkeeper.
So it is taking a request on behalf of it.
Of his child.
Okay.
So here in this case, child is what?
Your client.
The shopkeeper is what?
Nothing but your server.
And here, in this case, your mom is nothing but a proxy server which sits between the client and the
server.
So all the request of a client or a group of clients.
Client one.
Client two.
So let's say a mom has two childs, one daughter, one son.
So both will ask their mom only.
So.
Right.
So proxy.
Can take request from more than one clients also, right?
And for all the clients, proxy takes the request and goes to a server.
Ask for the required data server, returns it and proxy, get it and give it right.
So at least now you should know what is the difference.
What is the definition of proxy servers right?
So proxy server sits between a client and server and act as a intermediate between these two.
All the requests pass through the proxy.
Right.
No client and server can talk directly to each other okay.
So now we know that okay what is proxy server.
Now let's check its different types right.
So if you understand this right different types forward and reverse.
See from the name itself it's very very clear that forward and reverse it give you a hint that they
only differs in the direction.
Right.
So mostly there differs in direction of communication.
Forward.
Reverse.
Right.
So now let's first understand forward.
What is forward proxy.
So forward proxy is like which is also sometimes known as simple proxy.
When we say that hey proxy it sometime we are telling the definition of forward proxy only.
So what it is that let's say you have a closed network.
You your personal computer or group of personal computer or let's say intranet.
Right.
A group of closed network.
So this is client one.
Client two.
Client three.
You can say that it's an intranet or a group of personal network.
Your computer network.
And all right.
So a group of networks or clients talks to proxy.
This is your forward proxy sits here.
Forward proxy now goes to the internet outside world.
And here it reached out to a particular server.
The server responds back and the proxy returns back.
Right.
So here if you see that whatever we have discussed as a definition, it's very much similar to a forward
proxy.
So that's why I always say that when we tell only what is proxy, we are indirectly talking about forward
proxy.
So now what does forward proxy do.
So forward proxy what it does it it hides.
It hides the client network.
It hides the client network means server outside world.
Or they don't know about the internal network.
Internal clients How how they don't know is.
So let's say a client one makes a request.
So its IP address is I'm just taking for example, 172 .1.0.1.
This is 172 .2.0.1172.3.0.1.
Just an example.
Let's say these are the IP address, right?
So when any of this makes a request.
So let's say now request is coming from C one right.
172 .1.0.1 A.
This is making a request.
So what proxy will send its proxy will send its own IP address to the outer world.
Like this is making a request now on behalf of C one.
So server when it gets a request hey let's say let's say this is an API google.com google.com.
Right.
So this even the C one has made this request one.
But what it goes outside is google.com and its it's IP address.
So let's say its IP address is 192.3.0.1.
So it goes like 192.3.0.1.
So server knows that okay.
The request is coming from this.
It is asking me google.com something right.
But actually if you see that who makes the request see one.
Which IP address is this.
So what does forward proxies do?
This forward proxy hides the client from the outside world, right?
No server can talk.
No server can talk directly to the client.
Server can only talk or only know about the proxy only.
So indirectly, what advantage forward proxy can do is first advantage.
Now you know that it gives anonymity.
It gives anonymous anonymity to the internal networks.
So its IP address its It's location.
It's got hidden to the outside wall.
No server can know that request comes from where?
Right.
Because it passed through proxy.
Proxy send its IP address and server knows only about the proxy, so it breaks anonymity.
Second grouping.
Of request.
Now, I told you that a proxy can take care of multiple client requests.
So let's say this client is also making google.com request.
This client is also making google.com request.
So what it can do is it can club.
It can group the request and send one request.
Hey send the google.com outside so it can club the request and send into a one.
Right.
So that's capability also it provide right.
So what it does is I think you got it like it groups.
It helps in grouping the similar requests and then go outside and makes only one request.
Right.
So this grouping functionality is also provided by the proxy third access restricted data or content.
So let's say your country has uh, blocked certain kind of contents that it is not allowed to visit.
Let's say, uh, in India, a particular, uh, websites are banned or you cannot visit those.
Right.
So with the help of proxy, you can bypass those because you can, uh, this might be your let's say
it will, uh, proxy as like this request is coming from, uh, let's say some UK us.
Right.
So even though this is a, this user is in India and it is trying to access certain restrictive content.
So when it goes directly, definitely, uh, the because of the country, uh, location wise restriction,
those content cannot be accessed.
But when it passes through a proxy, it can act like it is coming from some other location.
So it can help to access certain restrictive content.
This proxy fourth, it brings security, right?
So you need to understand that when so when the control is in the forward proxy.
Also when you have multiple clients, let's say 100 clients, all their requests are going through from
the forward proxy itself.
So you can add certain kind of, uh, security that okay, what all they are allowed to access.
So that also you can put into the forward proxy that okay, only these kind of content or certain rules
based checking you can add it Added.
Okay.
So let's say maybe let's say you have a disabled, uh, reply from facebook.com.
Let.
Okay.
No social media.
Uh, you you client should not access it.
So when they try to access facebook.com, it, uh, goes there.
When the response comes, it says that.
Okay, I will not send the response.
Throw some error or it will stop at itself.
So we can also bring certain control security that okay.
What all you can access.
What all clients cannot access that also we can build out in a forward proxy okay.
So here if you see that this is the advantage.
And one more advantage is caching.
Very big advantage.
So what happened here in the uh forward proxy is just you can also do a caching.
So let's say there are certain static content right.
So now let's say I told you there could be 100 clients.
There could be 100 clients.
So let's say first time, uh, this, uh, access, let's say, uh, website, a website a so let's
say a proxy check.
What it will do is first proxy go and check its cash cache.
Hey, does website A is present or its content present within me?
No.
Then it goes outside, then it goes outside.
And once it got the response back, it stored into a cache.
Right.
And then respond back when any other client asks for the same content, then proxy server first check
its cache and then respond from the cache itself.
It don't go out also.
Okay, so this is another feature or advantage which forward proxy adds it.
Right.
So these are the five advantages anonymity grouping of the request.
And then as a group it send uh cumulative uh like out of it groups ten requests and send only one access
restricted data you it is you can use it to access certain restrictive data security.
Uh.
It can also be used.
Like what?
All data can be accessed.
Cannot be accessed.
Right.
So we can define certain rules and caching.
Right.
I told you but what is the disadvantage.
We also need to understand that disadvantage is it works on the application level.
Application level.
So there are multiple levels right.
Uh I think uh data layer, network layer, transport layer, physical layer.
And then there is something called application layer.
So this is an application uh, layer.
Uh, this thing uh, proxy works at application level means for if you have ten applications for each
application, you have to set up a proxy.
So let's say you have multiple application.
So for each application you have to set up a proxy For each application, you have to set up a proxy,
so it has to be set up at each application level.
That's what it is.
So here, if you see that there are certain protocols which I will tell you which works on this packet
level.
Right.
But this works on application level.
So that's why for each application you have to set up a proxy.
Okay.
So I think you understand the forward proxy right.
Now let's see what is reverse proxy.
I told you that there mostly differs in the direction differs in the direction.
So forward proxy it's work toward client.
So it saves client that it brings anonymity to them.
No server can dock.
No server can talk directly to the client.
Now here reverse proxy.
It's used to know more from the internet.
Whatever the requests are coming, there might be server one.
Server two.
Their company might have many servers server N, so no request which is coming from the internet can
talk directly to the server.
So reverse proxy sits here.
Reverse proxy.
Then it will send a request to an appropriate server okay.
Just see this.
It's very similar.
So here I will repeat again proxy server works on behalf of client.
No server can talk directly to a client.
Server can only know about proxy and proxy then talks to a client here in the reverse proxy opposite
happen when whatever requests coming from an internet it is not allowed directly to the server.
It goes to a reverse proxy and reverse proxy takes a responsibility to talk to a server.
Okay.
So that's why it just differs in the direction.
Okay.
So now what is the advantage it brings.
Right.
So now let's say you have a company and you have a server right.
So in the reverse proxy when you have bring in.
So first thing is definitely it brings some security that to the outside world.
They are not aware of the server's IP address server IP address, that which server they are talking
to and all all they are aware of the reverse proxy IP address.
So in case of DDoS attack, in case of DDoS attack, attacker can only attack the reverse proxy.
One particular reverse proxy it cannot attack on the server right.
And there are many resources.
So here you can have a vast resource and technology to tackle that.
Right.
So, you know, that one kind of reverse proxy is what you might have heard of.
CN.
CN is nothing but a reverse proxy, right?
So here let's say this is Paris.
This is you.
Let's say us.
This is India and this your server, original server.
Your server is sitting in, let's say Singapore.
Right?
So, uh, one client is sitting Paris, one client is sitting in us, one client is sitting in India,
but your server is in Singapore.
So if they are making a request, you can set up one CN at Paris, one CN at us, one CN at India.
So they're local clients, local users.
When their request forms it goes to their local CN right.
And from here if it also maintain a cache.
If data is not there, then only it goes to a original server.
So here.
Why this?
You get to know that if any attacker attacks, it can only attack on the CD.
Or you can say that reverse proxy.
It cannot attack on a original server, right?
So it brings an advantage that it can handle a DDoS attack.
Second, I told you caching that when it first the Paris user make a request.
This CDN or this reverse proxy will first check its own cache.
Hey, data is present, then it will return it from here.
If no then it go and check the original server.
Here we this user need this data.
Give it to me and then it will store into the cache and then give it right.
Third latency I told you that the reverse proxy can be set at like location nearest to the user location.
So when you do a caching it can bring some help in reducing the latency.
And the most and major advantage is load balancer.
Capability.
Right.
So reverse proxy sit here and there are multiple servers.
So when a request comes in let's say it's a heavy traffic taking servers like.
So when a request comes in it can do load balancing task.
Also that okay few requests and it to server one few requests and it to server two few requests and
it to server three like this.
So it can also help in the load balancing also okay.
So now you know what is reverse proxy right.
One popular reverse proxy.
You know that CDN right?
CDN technology is nothing but act as a reverse proxy.
So by learning this thing you should think come into the mind, hey what is proxy and VPN then what
is proxy and load balancer.
Because this seems very similar.
What is proxy versus firewall.
Now I tell you the difference.
First let's say proxy versus VPN.
So proxy act as a bypass.
So this is proxy.
Now this is server.
This is client.
This is server.
So it proxy certain media tree.
What it generally helps it to bring the anonymity.
Anonymity.
It can do caching as you know right.
It can also do logging.
Also we can add log right.
So anonymity like it hides the IP address.
It hides the IP address.
Right.
So whatever the client IP addresses server might not know it.
And in the reverse proxy the server IP address, uh, the internet uh doesn't know this.
Like what is the server IP address.
So it bring a anonymity at the IP address.
It can do caching, it can do logging.
But what is VPN.
So VPN is much more than proxy like.
So here you this is a client.
Let's say it's taken a VPN.
So there would be one VPN client.
There would be one VPN server over the internet.
Right.
So what it does is VPN creates a tunnel.
It creates a VIP and tunnel.
So when a client makes a request, when a client makes a this is internet.
When a client makes a request, first it has to connect to a VPN client.
So all its request goes through a VPN client VPN client.
What it will do is it can do encryption also encryption of your data.
So all the requests will go here as an encrypted data in the VPN tunnel.
Right.
So from outside, if any attacker tried to access the data it will not be able to know.
And in VPN server it will do decryption and then send to the original server.
Okay.
But here if you see that the proxy only do anonymity at the IP address masking, but it cannot encrypt
the data.
Encryption decryption is not possible and VPN does encryption decryption right and it create a safe
tunnel which is known as VPN tunnel from where the data flows, right?
So let's say this is your home computer which you connected through your IP, uh uh, internet.
And then you have to, uh, download one VPN client.
Maybe there are so many VPN providers.
So you have to pay and then use.
So there would be a client.
They will also have a server.
So a VPN tunnel got created.
So the major difference you have to understand is VPN does the encryption of data decryption of data
and create a safe tunnel to transfer the data.
Which proxy doesn't do it?
Okay.
Now let's understand between proxy versus load balancer.
And in more specifically I would say that reverse proxy reverse proxy versus load balancer because I
told you that reverse proxy can also act as a load balancer.
So now here, if you see that the major difference is your reverse proxy can act as a load balancer.
But load balancer cannot be.
A proxy because now you know that what all proxy can do proxy can do bring anonymity.
IP anonymity caching.
Logging.
So it has all these capabilities.
Also does load balancer have all this capability.
No.
So proxy has one more capability that it can also do load balancing.
So reverse proxy can act as a load balancer.
But load balancer cannot act as a proxy.
One more difference I would say is that let's say there is only one server.
For example only one server.
Do you need load balancer?
No, you don't need load balancer.
Load balancer is only needed when there are more than one server.
But reverse proxy can.
Also, if you have only one server, reverse proxy might be required because of caching.
Because of anonymity.
You want it because of logging.
Right.
So load balancer is just one capability which reverse proxy has.
But it can do much more than that.
Okay so got it.
Now let's see one last differences proxy versus firewall.
So first you need to understand what firewall is.
So let's say this is a firewall.
So the firewall we put certain holes right.
And for each hole we can define a the rules.
Okay.
From this, what all data can pass to the outside world internet.
So we can define rules that what all data can pass out of this small holes which we have created.
Right.
And it can do a packet scanning.
Packet scanning.
Right.
I told you that, uh, application layer, transport layer, network layer, physical layer.
So this all works on packets.
So when I say that packet, what it means is it will check the header.
It will check the port number IP address of source and destination, right of source and destination.
And based upon that it will check the rules whether okay this is the source IP address, source port
number, destination address, destination port number and all whether I should allow it or not.
Right.
So one thing is it works on the packet scanning.
And I told you that proxy proxy works at an application layer.
So what does proxy works on?
Proxy works on application level.
Right.
So apart from.
So apart from port and these things are application level you also have access to data also.
So you can add a certain kind of rules based upon the data also.
And here the thing is for each application you have to set up right.
So but here it is not required.
Right.
So one thing is it is a packet scanning right which works on a packet port numbers and proxy works on
a application level not on packets okay.
So also one more thing is proxy.
There are certain kind of things like generally when the proxy wars are brought in.
So proxy proxy wars basically usually work as an anonymity like it just does provide an anonymous like
a request comes in from this IP address one one let's say 0.1, but because of proxy it will go as a
200 dot something something something.
So IP address anonymity right.
But now there are so many proxies available like which can also block.
So like firewall do the blocking right.
It will block certain requests based upon the rules.
We can also develop the we have a proxy which can also do a blocking right based upon the rules also.
So proxy firewall we can have right.
So it will have certain capabilities of firewall also.
So proxy can act as a firewall also.
But the way they work it is known as traditional firewall which works on packet.
Right.
And there are if you see the concept of proxy firewall.
So these are you can say that latest.
They can also block data but they work at application layer.
Right.
That's the major difference.
So here I think you should be clear with proxy versus VPN, proxy versus load balancer, proxy versus
firewall.
And just have this difference like forward proxy, reverse proxy.
They mostly differ in the direction what they protect.
Forward proxy protects clients.
Reverse proxy protects servers.
Right.
I think guys it is clear the proxy servers and always remember CDN the famous we talk we gonna when
we do a lot of questions right.
Design this design YouTube design Facebook design this.
You will see a lot of CDNs and all.
Always remember that CDN is nothing but a reverse proxy.
Okay guys okay, so that's it for today and I hope you like the content.
And please share your valuable feedback and please share it with your friends guys it would be really
helpful.
Thank you guys.
Have a good day.
Bye.

--- Load Balancer and Different Algorithms ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So today we are going to cover this topic Load balancer.
So I am making this topic okay.
So now if you see not much topics are left in the theory part of the playlist.
We have covered so many topics and we are going to soon start the questions right.
So let's start with the load balancers and our different algorithm.
So first thing first what is load balancer.
Right.
So you know that we have a client server.
So our this is our client.
There can be many clients right.
There can be many clients.
And we have a server.
There can also be a many server.
Server one server two server N.
Right.
So when a request comes from the client, when a request comes from the client so that all the requests
should not goes to one server.
So one server should not get overloaded.
So what we do is we put load balancer.
The main purpose.
So now nowadays if you see the load balancer can do lot of things.
It can do logging, it can do so many other stuff.
But the main purpose of load balancer is to distribute this traffic appropriately to all the servers
so that no, no one single server get overburdened.
Now, if you see that the categories of load balancer there are two types.
L4 balancer, which is nothing but a network load balancer type L7 balancer which is nothing but a application
load balancer.
So you know that there are seven layers of OSI model.
So the seventh layer is your application.
And I think the fourth layer is your transport layer right.
So application layer is known as L7 balancer.
Network load balancer is known as your L4 balancer, which works at the transport layer.
Now what is the difference.
So here the major difference between the application layer load balancer and transport or network layer
load balancer is it can read your header session even data right.
It can also read your response also.
Right.
So what it can do is it can take decision to distribute this traffic based upon information from header
session cookies data.
Right.
And it can also have the capability to do the caching.
So it can also do caching also.
Why.
Because it can read the response right.
So you can say that it is much more advanced.
So this is much more Advanced right and in the other layer.
Network load balancer or L4 load balancer.
It can have your TCP port UDP port IP address.
IP address of source and destination.
So based on this only it can take a decision whether to route this traffic to which server.
Right.
So this is much more advanced but this is much more faster.
Now one more thing I just want to say before we start, there are a lot of algorithms you find over
the internet, right.
Like this, this, this.
They do not categorize it, whether it's a network or application, but based on my understanding of
the network and application load balancer, all these algorithms which are mentioned everywhere, everywhere,
like these are the load balancer algorithm.
This based on my understanding this comes under the network load balancer type.
So now let's first start with our algorithms which is first static algorithms.
Static load balancing.
The first static load balancing is your round robin.
So see everybody knows about the round robin right.
So this is your client right.
This is your client which is giving a request 1234.
It goes to the load balancer.
Now load balancer knows about this server okay.
So there are two servers.
Server one server two.
What it will do is in a round robin fashion.
So it goes first.
Now the second goes here.
Third goes here fourth goes here.
Now if there is more request comes fifth goes here, six goes here, seven eight.
And likewise.
So you know right round robin first server one.
Second.
Server two, third again server one, server to server one.
Server one two.
So this is a very simple round robin algorithm.
But there are certain advantage and disadvantage of it which is very very important to know about it.
Without this it would be incomplete.
So advantage of round robin is very very easy to implement right.
There is nothing very simple algorithm equal load distribution to all the servers.
So if let's say if you got ten requests you definitely know that five will goes to is five will goes
to is because it's a round robin one given to server one, another given to server two, and likewise
so equally distribute the load to the server.
But what is the disadvantage?
Can you think about it?
The disadvantage is a one server with high capacity and another with low.
Both will be treated as same.
So let's say this server has very high capacity.
Let's say this is ten times Faster or ten times more resources.
Ten times more resources than this.
It is only one time, let's say.
But still this got the five request.
This is still got the five request.
Right.
So round robin you can't do like based upon the capacity.
You can define like okay which server get the more requests okay.
So chance that low capacity server will go down because of the overload of requests.
Right.
For this server it is only one times.
And this has ten times more resources.
So it can easily process the five requests.
But maybe for this five request is very much right.
So it's chance that this will go down.
So this is your round robin.
The second is weighted round robin.
So whatever the problem we disadvantage the previous one has that okay.
It treat both high capacity and low capacity same.
So it tried to do this.
Solve this how?
By giving the weight.
That's why the name weighted round robin.
Okay.
So how it can give a weight.
So let's say I told you right.
Let's say this server is one time and this server is three times of this capacity.
Right.
Three times of the capacity.
So now when a request is coming.
So again first thing you notice it's a round robin.
So first all the requests given to server one then server two then server one then server two.
Likewise only.
So let's say first three requests.
So it's a three times of server two right.
Capacity.
So now weight represent capacity of server.
Here the weight represents the capacity of the server.
So now the server one is three times more has more capacity than server two.
So when the request comes so first request goes to server one.
Second request also goes to server one.
Third request also goes to server one because it is three times more powerful than server two.
Three times more powerful.
So it.
So let's say if it get one request, it will get three requests.
Likewise okay, so when three requests first three requests comes.
It goes one here to the server, one second goes to the server, one third goes to the server one.
Now fourth request comes in.
It goes to server two.
Now fifth request comes in.
It goes to here.
Sixth request comes in.
It goes here.
Seventh request comes in.
It goes here now eighth request will goes here.
Let's check its advantage and disadvantage.
Advantage low capacity server will get saved from receiving the large number of requests.
So now here what we are doing is we are saving the server to that okay.
Hey server server one has more capacity than you so it is getting more requests.
Hey, you have less capacity, so you are getting less requests.
So that is considered so low capacity server will get say from receiving the large number of requests.
Easy to implement as weights are static.
No dynamic computation.
So this weight right.
These are static in nature.
So when any new server is started added right.
Load balancer knows.
So we will give a weight to this server and load balancer know okay this is the weight.
So it can just use that weight to determine where the request has to be sent.
It is a load balancer.
Do not do any dynamic computation.
So that's why it is under static algorithm.
But what is the disadvantage can you think one disadvantage here.
So see the biggest disadvantage here is the request which comes right.
It some requests are like it can be completed very fast.
Some requests which takes time.
Right.
So that's why which I mentioned here.
If requests have different processing time, then it's possible that low capacity server get high processing
requests and get overburdened.
For example this server one got 123 server two, which is uh, wait is only one.
It got one.
Okay.
But this four is let's say it's taking 10s.
And here the server one, uh, in this one, two, three is got completed and millisecond let's say
50 millisecond.
It completed in 30 millisecond.
It's completed in four milliseconds.
Very small request.
But the request which server two is getting.
It's very high ten second.
So now after that five it goes right.
1234.
Let's say five, six seven.
It goes eight.
Now eight is also more.
Eight is also let's say 20s.
So this is still running now.
this is also pending.
It is also going to be has to be processed.
But these are very quick one.
It is taking ten milliseconds 70 milliseconds eight milliseconds.
So here if you see that what I'm trying to say, even the load is distributed based upon the weight.
But what if the high processing request comes to the server too?
So while it is still processing the previous one, another comes while it is still processing this one.
Another comes right.
So this is a chance that when the low capacity server gets the high processing request, it is possible
that it will get overburdened soon.
Now let's go to the IP hash.
So now why this is also a static because see now here every client has a IP address source IP address.
Now here the load balancer use this source IP address to do, compute the hash number.
So using the hash function you will get some value.
And based upon that value you will assign the request to the server.
Right.
So let's say you compute for this source IP address you compute the hash and you got that okay.
This has to be goes to the server one server.
Server two uh like client two when you get this IP address you compute the hash.
And with this hash you get that okay.
Server two will we have to put.
So looks simple but there is an advantage is good for use case where same client need to connect to
the same server.
So see now client one.
So client one has this IP address right.
So no matter how many times you do a hash you will also always this request goes to server one.
So any use case where you have that hey same client should go to the same server, then this algorithm
is good.
There are so many disadvantages of this.
One of the biggest disadvantage is I.
If you have read the previous video like I created on the proxy, you will understand that if the client
request is coming through a proxy, then all the clients will have the same source IP address.
So you know that, right?
If this is a client, this is a client.
Client one.
Client two.
In the previous video, what I told you that if they are, all the request goes through a proxy in the
proxy.
And what proxy is this forward proxy.
So in the previous video I told you that and when it reached to a server server knows about the IP address
of this proxy.
So this IP address is let's say 192 something something something 182 something something something.
It is 172 something something something.
So server will know only about the IP address of the proxy 172.
And that's all.
So server doesn't know about these IP addresses, right?
So if the client request is coming through a proxy, then all the clients will have the same source
IP address.
Which one.
Because server will now know only know about the IP address of proxy.
And when you do a hashing of that proxy IP address, you know that it will always goes to the server
one server only.
So let's say here you have a proxy sitting in proxy.
So proxy here.
Here it is 1921822172152.
Let's say it is 162 .1.0.1.
So now all the requests which are coming through this, it will go through proxy load balancer knows
only about this IP address.
IP address is hash of 162 only.
Right.
And all the requests will goes to let's say one of the server only.
So all the requests 1234 all request goes to one of the server.
so it is chance that one of the server get bombarded because of this issue.
And also in the hash you cannot guarantee equal distribution.
So it's a hash, right?
What if this even if, let's say proxy is not there, even if proxy is not there, you just compute
the hash of this source IP address.
There is no guarantee that it will equally distribute.
It's possible that 143 come here, two goes here.
So there is no guarantee that equal distribution.
So that's why these are static algorithms.
And I think you got the advantage disadvantage of all the static load balancing.
Now let's come to dynamic algorithms right.
As the name says itself dynamic so means something is dynamically computed to determine the load balancing.
One thing is least connection.
So now let's say the requests are coming from the clients.
And you have a load balancer.
And there we have a server.
So now let's say server one already have two active connection.
Active connection from client one and client three.
Server two has only currently one active connection right.
So what load balancer do is it will check which server has less active connection.
So let's say any new request which are coming right.
What load balancer do this.
Hey which server has the less active connection.
It will say that okay server two you have only one active connection.
Server one you have two active connection.
So it will transfer the request to server two because it has only one active connection right.
Advantage dynamic as it considers the load on each server dynamically.
It's not static that no server two will always load capacity.
Always end to this no dynamically check which has less connection.
And based on that it's sent So the chance of overburden of the server is less when each server has equal
capacity.
Now let's say these both are equal server.
So now it just check like which server has less active connection.
It's sent to those.
So it will guarantee that okay no one will get overburden.
They get equal requests.
But what is the disadvantage.
So the first disadvantage which I can think of is like see in the TCP connection TCP connection can
be active.
So this is client this server you made a TCP connection.
So TCP connection can be active but possible have no traffic no traffic.
So the this purpose will fail right.
So even though let's say it is making an active connection with client two right.
Uh, or let's say this one, it is making a active connection with client one and client three.
Right.
But there is no traffic.
But even though server two is making a connection with client to.
There is lot of traffic from this, lot of traffic from this.
Let's say it is sending request 1234567.
Lot of traffic is coming from client to but client one and client three even though connection is there
but there is no traffic or let's say very very less traffic.
Let's say only one request request.
One request, let's say three only.
So that's why I say that it's do not differentiate between low capacity and high capacity chance that
the low capacity server will get overburdened because maybe it has only less connection.
But the number of requests which are getting from that connection, uh, it might be high.
Got it.
So that's why the second things which comes in weighted least connection.
Right.
The what the similar thing which we see in the weighted round robin.
Right.
Similarly weighted least connection.
So what we have done here is we have assigned a weight also weight also.
So this server has let's say one, but this server is ten times of server one, right?
Ten times of server one.
And also it has the connection information that how many active connections are present at server one.
How many active connections are present at server two.
Now when any request comes in, when any new request comes in, right.
What load balancer do is it will calculate the ratio of what it will calculate the ratio of number of
active connections to its weight, number of active connections okay.
So this server has two active connections.
And but it has ten times of more capacity than it will compute the ratio of it.
Right.
Let's say it's two by ten two active connection and the weight is ten.
It has one active connection.
Weight is one.
And so result is one.
here is 0.2.
So means and it will forward the request with the minimum ratio.
So it is minimum 0.2.
So it will forward it to that.
There is something called least response time.
Hey this is very interesting right.
So first thing is you need to understand something is before I said this Tfb.
So what is Tfb is Tfb is time to first byte.
So the time interval between sending a request and receiving the response from the server, the first
byte or first byte.
Or you can say that the first packet from the server in the response.
So the time interval between sending the request and receiving the response from the server.
It is known as Tfb.
Time to first byte.
So as from the name, you might be seeing that least response less response one.
Right.
So how does it do.
So this is very, very important.
Uh, just see this how this will take care of this one.
So let each server has two things.
What are the active connection.
And it also has tfb like what is the response time.
Let's say its response time is for example three active for this server two active connection is for
response time is one server is three.
Let's say three active connection is zero, response time is two.
So see this response time load balancer.
Compute dynamically like it.
Send a request packet and track the response okay.
How much response I am getting it.
It picked the server which has less.
This is the.
What it will do is multiply the active connection into least tfb.
Right?
So let's say currently it is request.
Let's say four is coming, four is coming.
So now to whom request will send what.
It will compute active connection into least gtfb.
So server1 what it would be three into two this three into two six server two is one into four, server
three is zero into or two into zero which is zero.
So the request will goes to the least one which is server three.
So it goes to the server three.
Now it become active connection one.
Now let's say another request comes is three right.
Uh so now what it will do is it will compute again okay.
Six four.
Now here it would be two again which is less again.
Server three is less.
So request three will also goes here.
Now the active connection become two.
Now it will compute again.
So now let's say request to another.
One more request is coming.
So it is still unchanged.
Six, four.
Now here it's four.
This is also four.
Now here.
If you see that now or request two is sent to which one, request two is sent to which one.
Either server two because it has four, even server three which is also now four.
So now here it follows the round robin okay.
Server two is first give it to server two.
Its connection become high five.
So you got it right.
Now any time any new request comes in, it will compute this calculation and find out which server it
has to go.
And if 2 or 2 or more server has the same value of active connection into least tab, it follows the
round robin.
Simple okay.
So these are the everything about load balancer.
And yes see you soon guys.
I hope you, uh, got lot of information out of this.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Distributed Cache & Caching Strategies | Cache-Aside, Write-Through, Write-Back ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in the high level design topic we are going to do today.
Yes that is the very important topic that is caching.
Right.
So the caching part I have divided into two parts.
So in the part one I will be covering this part.
So today I will cover this this part one.
So here caching strategy and all I will show you with the help of sequence diagram itself.
So you will never ever forget what are the different strategies available in cache.
Not in even interviews also.
Right.
And then I will tell you what is distributed caching and this cache eviction policies I will cover in
the part two.
Okay.
So this will be the part one and part two.
So let's start without wasting time.
Let's understand what is caching.
So as everybody knows, right?
Caching is a technique to store frequently used data in a fast access memory, rather than accessing
data every time from a slow access memory.
Right.
So this is a self explanation that caching is a technique where if any data which is used too much frequently.
Right.
So you know that, uh, slow access memory could be what, your, uh, hard disk.
Right.
Or if you say that your it could be your DB.
DB access.
These are slow access memory rather than the fast access memory.
Could be, you know, right.
There are different types of, uh, fast access memory like Ram.
So Ram is much faster than your hard disk and DB right.
So this is just an example.
So caching is a technique to store frequently used data in a faster access memory rather than accessing
every time from the slow access memory.
That is what actually known as caching.
Okay, so this makes our system fast.
Yes, because every time we read the data we are reading from the fast access memory.
So our operation would be faster.
So our latency would be very less and our system would be very fast right.
It also helps to achieve the fault tolerance.
This is very very important to understand how it helps to achieve fault tolerance.
And you will get your answer in one of the caching strategy.
How it helps the fault tolerance that this one right back.
Okay, so we will cover this in depth like how it helps in achieving the fault tolerance okay.
So now you know that there are different type of caching present at different layer of the system right.
So from front end to back end to DB.
Everywhere you will see that cash is available.
Uh, I'm not a front end guy, but I am.
Uh, I know that there is a browser caching available.
Also that whenever you load a page in the browser also has certain memory where it, uh, stores that
web pages which are frequently used.
So same web pages should not be loaded again from the host.
Right.
So we have caching at client side.
And if you know that at CDN also we keep the static data so that over the geographical distributed uh
users they get the faster content delivery right in load balancer.
In the previous video, I have already shown you that load balancer also have the cache capability,
but today I will much more focus on the server side application caching like Reddis, right?
So this is very, very important which I will cover today.
Okay.
Now let's I'm going into that server side application caching, right?
So here, if you know that, what are the components generally present?
You have a client, you have a load balancer, you have a server and then you have a DB right.
So this cache sits behind your server and DB right.
So let's say if client wants certain information it goes to a load balancer.
There might be many app servers.
So one of the app server will get this request from the load balancer.
Now first App Server tries to read this data right to fetch the data from the cache instead of getting
it from the DB right.
So that's where the cache application cache in the server side cache.
Or you can say that the backend cache.
Right.
So you can call it with a different name.
That's where it comes into the picture.
So before application directly talks to the DB, it first talks to the cache.
Hey do you have that data present?
If yes, give me I will return back.
If not then app goes and take out the data from the DB.
Right.
There are different strategies will come to that soon, but this is where the point where cache sits
between app and db in the server side.
Application caching.
Okay, so now what is distributed caching.
So before even understanding distributed caching term right you need to understand like let's say if
you have multiple app.
App server one.
App server two.
App server three.
Let's say they are using only one cache.
You have only one cache server which holds the data.
Write only one CAS server, so you already know the limitation.
What is the limitation with this?
So first limitation would be the scalability at a particular point of time.
You can't scale it right.
It has limited space.
Or you can say that limited resources after a particular point of time you cannot scale it more, right.
The second limitation of this is like a single point of failure.
If this got fail, then your caching capability gone, right?
So that's where the distributed caching comes into the picture, right?
So what happens in the distributed caching is we have a cache pool right.
And we have lot of cache servers.
Cache server one.
Cache server two.
Cache Server three.
CAS server four.
There are so many cache server present into a pool, right?
And we have a cache client which is known as cache client.
Right.
So each app app server uses this cache client right.
They have this cache client with them.
And they use this cache line to connect to a particular cache server.
Right.
So each app server has its own cache client.
And using that cache client it will get one of the cache server where it will store the data or read
the data.
Now your question should come into your mind that hey, strange how one of the server would be allotted
to a particular app server.
How?
Right.
So for that it uses.
Consistent hashing technique.
And if you have not seen my previous in the high level design from Basics to Advanced playlist, write
this six number video.
I have covered the consistent hashing in depth right?
So please have a look because that will make your fundamental clear like how consistent hashing works.
Right.
So I'll just I will just give you here the glimpse right how consistent hashing works.
But to know in depth please uh have a look at this video.
Right.
So you know that in consistent hashing it makes a ring.
And all this cache servers, right, will be present here on the ring.
So these are all cache server one.
Cache server two.
Cache server three.
Cache server four.
CAS server five.
Right.
And it When any request.
So let's say whenever any request comes in of let's say put, I want to put a data into a particular
cache server, let's say from App Server one.
Okay.
So whatever the request comes in.
So it will get based on the hash right.
It will get one of the point right.
And whichever point it will go, it will rotate in a clockwise manner.
And the first cache server will be allotted to it.
Right.
So this is how generally the so it's nothing it's a nothing special about the distributed caching.
It is actually nothing but a consistent hashing technique right.
In consistent hashing I called them as a node.
Right.
Because it can be any server.
It can be your DB server, it can be your app server, it can be here.
In this case it is cache server.
Now let's come to the major section of this video where we want to know about the different caching
strategy.
Right.
So there are five caching strategy cache aside read through cache right.
Around cache right through cache.
And write back or behind cache okay.
Let's see this one by one.
And let's see with an example.
So what is cache aside.
So let's first read out the definition or this terms.
Then we'll see with this sequence graph application.
First check the cache okay.
So this is your client.
This is your server or which I'm calling it as an application.
Okay.
So application first check the cache.
If data found in the cache.
It is called cache.
Hit means you got the data.
And data is returned to the client.
If data is not found in the cache, it is called cache miss and application.
Then fetch the data from DB, store it in the cache and data is returned to the client.
Now let's see with this one.
So now here is the client.
Client said that hey read any read request any get call.
Okay.
Now it goes to the application of our backend server.
So what it says that first application first read the cache.
So it this is our first read.
Get call comes.
So server will first check.
Hey cache.
Do you have the data present.
Right.
Then we have an if else condition.
Whether it could be yes cache has.
If cache has means it's a cache hit.
If it's not a if if cache doesn't have the data what it would be it would be cache miss Right.
So it's an if else condition.
Let's say cash has the data means it's a cash hit.
So cash will return it here.
Right.
And cash will return it.
And ultimately it will send the back to the server or client send the response.
But it is possible that cash doesn't have the data.
Then what?
It will do it.
It will be a cache miss now.
So this would be our third step.
Now it become a cache miss.
Then what it will do is our application or server will fetch the data from the DB.
Now it will get the data from the DB.
DB has the data and then it will update our cache.
Also it will write the data into the cache right.
So that any further get calls comes so that it become a cache hit.
Okay.
There are certain pros and cons of it like so.
One thing is very clear that it is this approach is good for heavy read.
So whenever you have an application which is very, very heavy read, then this cache is good for it
because whenever any Get request comes, we are looking for cache.
And if cache has the data, it's a cache hit.
We don't have to go and query the DB, right?
So this is a good approach when our application is read heavy.
Okay.
And the second what is the pro is like let's say if cache goes down this goes down.
Will it affect us.
No.
What it will happen is it will be considered as a cache miss and it fit as a cache miss.
We will fetch the data from the DB, right?
But, uh, it is still the request will get success.
But only thing is, we won't be able to utilize the cache.
We will not be able to read the cache or write into the cache, right.
But we can still fulfill our queries from the DB.
So this is another pro like even cache is down, request will not fail.
We will fetch the data from the DB.
And another, uh, you can say that advantage is that the document, the data model which is there in
the DB.
So let's say in DB you have a table employee and it has let's say ID then name uh then address okay.
And then you have another table.
Uh, you can say that uh salary where it has salary detail or something.
Something.
Right.
So this is your DB okay.
But what it capability has is in the cache.
You can have let's say key is your employee ID.
And the value you can put is like this.
Any you don't have to have the same structure.
You can have your own structure that name address salary.
And inside you can create salary as an object and inside salary object.
You can have more details, right?
You.
Even if there is certain data of which you wanted to put, you can add over here also, right?
So that's what I'm trying to say is that this cash data structure of storing the data is independent
of the DB.
How the DB stores the data, because this application is taking the responsibility of writing into the
cash application is taking the responsibility of writing into the cash.
So whatever the data you get from the DB, you can modify it in the way you want it to store in the
cash, and then you can store it.
One of the con, you will see that whenever any new request comes in, let's say any.
So write operation comes in.
Now here in this cash aside during write operation, are we doing anything?
Are we doing anything during right operation?
No.
Right operation is still writing directly into the DB, right?
So one thing is that let's say if any write operation comes and it's write some new data into the DB,
definitely that new data is not there into the cache.
So any Get call comes for this new data.
It will try to read from the cache.
Will it be available.
No it won't be available.
It will be a cache miss.
And then it will fetch from the DB.
And then it will write into the cache.
So for new data read there will always be a cache miss first.
But there is still a problem with this, right?
So here if you see that there is a chance of inconsistency.
Now let's say understand this thing how the inconsistency can come.
So you have a read operation.
You have a read operation.
And this is a write operation.
So now let's say write operation comes, right?
Let's say this is over my cache.
This is dot db.
Okay.
So now let's say one thing is uh write operation comes is let's say uh, it is putting certain value
as ten.
Okay.
Put it into the DB.
Fresh.
Okay.
Now the Get request comes.
So it will say that hey do you have this data.
Just assume that any data employee data anything.
Okay.
So it says that hey do you have this employee data.
No.
It will go fetch from the DB.
And then it will insert into the cache and it will let's say put the ten okay.
Now let's say another request comes into the right.
Now right is putting let's say 11 of this.
It is updating.
It is updating the request.
So now this DB stores 11 instead of this ten.
But has this right?
Make this cache invalidate.
No, this cache is still valid.
When any Get request comes, it will check the cache.
Hey, do you have this employee data?
It will say yes and it will return ten even though DB has now 11.
So there is a chance that without appropriate caching is not used during write operation.
So you have to use certain caching technology or caching strategy at right also.
Otherwise your read will become inconsistent data between because there is a chance that you have an
inconsistent data.
Your DB has latest value and your cache has stale data and your read will get stale data.
So you got this right.
How there is a chance of inconsistency between cache and DB.
So there is very very similar to cache sizes.
Read through cache.
This is very very simple.
Just understand this application.
First check the cache.
The same if data is found in the cache, it's called cache hit same.
Yes, you got the data and the data is returned to the client.
Exactly same as cache aside.
Now the third point.
If data is not found in the cache, what it is, it is cache miss.
Now, in the cache aside, what we will do is application.
Take the responsibility to fetch the data and put it into the cache.
But in the read through cache, the cache itself takes the responsibility to fetch the data from DB
and store it back to cache, right?
So here the only difference is that now our application don't have to worry about that.
Okay, if cache miss I have to fetch the data from DB.
No.
So a request comes a Get request comes to our application our application.
first checked with the cash.
Hey, do you have the data now?
Cash.
Say that cash has the data.
If it is a hit, then it will return it.
If it is a miss, it is a false condition.
If it is a miss.
This is.
If it is a miss, then what it will do is now this cash library.
This is the library.
Let's say this will take the responsibility to fetch the data from the DB, and whatever the data will
get from the DB, it will update itself and then it will return to the application.
An application will return to the client.
So you got it.
So earlier fetching the data and updating the cache was taken care by the application of a server.
But here the whatever the cached library we are using, it takes care of fetching the data from the
DB and updating itself.
So pros good approach for read heavy read application.
The same thing because it is also for the read and whenever read request comes it first check with the
cache.
Second, the logic of fetching the data from db and updating the cache is separated from the application.
If there is a cache.
So now if for from the server perspective.
From your application perspective, you don't have to worry about it's cache hit or cache cache miss.
I have to have a certain unique logic of okay, if it is a cache miss, do this.
All this logic will be present into inside cache library.
Whatever the library you are using, uh, you can have added over there that now it will fetch the data
from the DB and write into the cache.
Okay, but what is the cons?
There are con also, it is similar to the cache aside any new data, there will always be a cache miss.
Second, without any write operation there is a chance of inconsistency between cache and DB.
Another con is the cash document structure should be same as DB table.
You can't define your own cash structure now, right?
Whatever the DB has.
So let's say DB has this employee table.
It has 20 fields the similar kind of document.
Also let's say whatever the employee ID is your key.
The same kind of deal would be present here with all the 20 fields, the same document.
Right.
So it would be now 1 to 1 mapping with your DB table.
You can't have your own cash document structure kind of thing okay.
So that is your read through cash.
Now let's see what is right around cash.
So this is which will help in both.
So inconsistency problem I told you right.
And both are cash aside and read through cash.
So generally I told you, right.
They use they have to be used with certain right operation.
That is what it is right around cash.
So in right around cash, if we directly write data into the DB, right.
We don't even touch the cash.
We write directly into the DB.
Okay.
But write it.
Do not update the cash, uh, document.
Or you can say the cash data, but what it does is it will make cash invalidate.
Or you can mark as dirty.
It will mark it dirty.
So now let's say any write request comes in okay.
So write request comes in.
Let's say uh put write or any patch comes in.
So what it will do is it will first directly write into the DB.
So now let's say cash already has value ten Already has ten.
Same.
So this is your get call comes.
It connect with cache.
Any let's say put or patch or post comes.
It will connect with directly DB.
So now any Put request comes that hey change the value of this 10 to 11.
So it will directly write to db.
It will directly write to db.
So it will change it to 11.
But what it will do is it will invalidate the data to the cache.
So what it will do is it will also mark this.
Hey this is now your dirty.
So there is something called dirty flag.
So it will make it true.
Hey this is now dirty.
Don't read it.
So during get call it will check.
Okay.
Hey.
This data which I'm about to read.
Is it dirty or not?
If it is dirty, means this data has been changed.
Then it it's.
It will be treated as a cache miss and it will read from the DB and then put the latest data.
Okay.
Okay, so what is the advantage?
It is again good for heavy read application because this is used with heavy read only.
Otherwise there is of no use of write around, right?
It has to be used with read heavy application and it has to be used with certain either read through
cache or cache aside cache.
Right?
Alone.
This cache strategy is of no use, right?
It resolves the consistent inconsistency problem between this.
What is the disadvantage for new data?
Read.
There will always be a cache miss.
The same thing because I am saying you this is just helping the read through cash or cash aside are
strategy only.
So whatever the disadvantage it has that cash one.
It is still the same problem, right?
Every time get request will come, it will be a cash mess only.
Right?
Because new data is not even present.
Because let's say if new data is coming post and it is something putting new data, it is not even touching
the cash, right?
It is not putting that new data here.
It is just putting it to the DB.
So forget it will be a mess only.
And one more thing is if DB is down your right operation will fail.
So currently your right operation is totally dependent on DB availability.
If, let's say your DB wherever your data center is it there is a disaster and your DB goes down.
Will your right operation works?
No, it will try to right into the DB, but DB is now down.
It won't be able to write it.
So your write operation is not fault tolerant.
Right.
So currently your is your write is fault tolerant.
No, your write is not fault tolerant.
Because when DB is down your write will also fail.
Okay.
So this is the disadvantage of this one.
Now let's say one more write through cache now.
So what is right through cache.
So now you are with the name itself.
It is clear right.
Passing through something.
Right through.
So first thing is first write the data into the cache.
And then in synchronous manner write data into the DB.
So now let's say request comes.
Hey write something.
Let's say post request something.
New data.
Now our application what it will do is it will first write into the cache okay.
So now cache will always have the latest data.
Right.
And after that it will right into the DB.
So now DB is also have the latest data.
So now let's say you have cache you have DB right.
And let's say post request comes let's say put ten.
Just assuming that okay I need to insert ten.
So what it will do is it will first insert into cache and then it will insert into DB.
If any of them insertion got failed you have to throw the exception right.
So both should pass if db insertion got fail, or if cache insertion got fail you, we have to fail
the transaction.
That's why I said in the asynchronous manner we have to write the data into the DB.
Let's say you have write the data into the cache and in a synchronous in synchronous manner you have
to write the data into the DB.
Let's say DB failed.
You have to now roll back the whatever you have inserted into the cache also.
So what is the Pro cache and DB always remain consistent.
Because if success is there, it has to be success.
If this got fail, it has to be rollback also.
Right.
And let's say if cache itself got fail we will fail the write operation itself.
Second is cache hits.
Chances increase a lot.
Now here if you see that even for the new data, even the new data is now present into the cache, right.
So whenever any new Post request comes in, it added the data into the cache, right?
The first time it added into the cache, it added into the DB.
And whenever the Get request comes, it will find the data now.
So now if you see that what the advantage where we have that for the new data there will always be cache
miss.
Now in the write through cache it would be because even for the write operation it insert the data into
the cache.
Okay, so but there are certain cons also.
First thing is alone it is not useful.
Now let's say you are inserting the data into the cache and the DB.
Will you be using it alone?
No.
You have to read.
You have to use it with either cache aside or read through cache.
Then only you will get an advantage of it.
Otherwise it just like we are adding a latency.
Earlier we were just writing into the DB, now it right through cache.
We also have to write into the cache so only latency will get increased.
If nobody is there to read the data from the cache, what would be the advantage?
So write through cache alone.
We can't use it.
We have to use it either with read through or cache aside.
Second two phase commit need to be implement means.
I told you that right?
Either both should be success or both should be fail.
It should not be like cash success and DB fail, right?
Then we can't keep the data into the cache.
Otherwise it will have the latest data and it will.
Since DB failed, it has the old data.
Then it would be an inconsistency issue.
So we have to implement the two phase commit where like if cache success db success okay.
If cache success and db fail we have to roll back the cache also, right?
So either both will success or both will fail.
That's all.
That's what two phase commit say.
So we have to make sure that another thing it is still not fully fault tolerant.
If DB goes down or cache goes down, what will happen?
Our write operation will fail.
If DB goes down, will it be able to write into DB?
No, if it not be able to write into the DB or write operation will fail.
And last, you can say that very important write back or behind cache strategy.
So we first write data into the cache.
The similar to through we first write data into the cache.
But when we write data into the db write we will not write into synchronous.
We will write into asynchronous manner.
So let's say first client warns us that hey this is my post request.
Add something new data.
Now our application will first write into the cache.
Now let's say our data is present into the cache.
Now instead of writing data into the DB write I am not dependent on db.
Now I.
Let's say I push the data into the queue write and from this queue maybe later I will read it and then
put the data into the DB in a synchronous manner.
Right now here, if you see that now I am not no more dependent on DB.
Let's say even if DB goes down for two hours, I am okay.
Let's say my cache turnaround time is let's say 24 hours.
So means till 24 hour DB is down.
I am able to fulfill the request from the cache because cache has the data.
And once the db come back from queue, I will read it and write it into DB.
So it will bring your fault tolerance.
Now you have certain tolerance level.
What is the pro good for?
Write heavy application.
So one of the advantage you will see right.
So our write API latency goes down.
Because earlier what we were doing is from we were writing into the DB right.
As a normal flow write operation right into DB.
Now we are not writing into the DB, we are just writing into the cache.
Writing into a cache is faster than writing into a DB, right?
And then we are not waiting to write into the DB, we are just publishing a message into the queue.
Hey, you take care of writing into the DB in a synchronous way.
Okay, but by the time we have write in data into the cache, we have already sent success response,
right?
We just published the message and in the US this will this task will be async manner.
It might take certain time.
We don't care.
As soon as we insert the data into the cache we are good.
We will send a success.
The cache hit chance increase a lot.
Why?
Because cache always has the updated data.
Whenever any write post put comes, cache will get updated, so it will always have the latest data.
So during Get request the it will get the data from the cache itself, the cache itself.
It has the latest data, gives much better performance when used with write through cache.
Yeah.
So this one just I want to add like again using it alone.
Yeah.
It is a benefit that even if DB goes down my system would still be up.
My write request or post request will not go fail.
There is an advantage, but still the real advantage comes when you will use either with cache aside
or read through cache because you are inserting the data into the cache, right?
If somebody can read from it, then you will see that your whole system read also will become much more
faster.
So that's why it gives much better performance when used with read through or cache aside cache.
But there are certain cons of it first.
So this is not a con.
So this is a pro.
Even when DB fails, write operation will still work.
So this is a pro itself.
So this is not con This is your pro then con.
The disadvantage is let's say now just see this.
You have a cash, you have a DB and that say this is your certain Q.
So let's say your time to live of data.
So here you wanted to put ten.
So cash has the latest data.
And in Q you have let's say I want to put ten into the DB.
But DB doesn't have any this data yet.
And time to live is let's say I have put three hours here in the cash.
So okay.
So now Q when Q was trying to put this data into the DB, now let's say DB goes down right?
So Q will wait, Q will just wait it and it wait for DB to come back.
Let's say but let's say DB is down for five hours.
Right.
So five r DB is down.
So after three hours what will happen after time to live for this cache is three hours.
So after three hours this data will be removed from the cache.
DB is still down because it is down for five hours.
So after three hours still it is down.
So DB doesn't have the data.
All the application which has read this data.
Let's say if they are trying to do certain operation on top of it.
Will it work?
Because now this ten is not available in the cache ten is not available in the DB.
Right.
So this is problem can comes certain kind of issue can come.
So these are the caching strategies which I have wanted to cover in depth and cache eviction policies
I will cover in the next video of the part two.
Okay guys, if you have any doubt, feel free to ping me in the comment section or please connect with
me on LinkedIn.
Right?
We can discuss more.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Handle Distributed Transactions | Two-Phase Commit (2PC), 3PC and SAGA Pattern ---

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do a very very important question in high level design which is distributed
transaction handling.
So I'm making it tick Mark.
Right.
So this is the question which has been asked to me also in so many interviews.
Right.
So no matter you have two years of experience or if high level design round is happening, this is something
which is very, very, very important.
No matter two years, five years, eight years, no, this is something which everybody has to know.
If you are appearing for a high level design interview and apart from interview in the Daily, as a
software engineer, when you are working in a company, this is something you're gonna deal with it.
Okay.
So let's start with this.
So transaction handling in distributed system.
So before even doing this first understand what is transaction very quickly.
Then we'll jump into how to handle it.
So transition is refers to a set of operations which need to be performed against the DB.
Right.
Or we can say that it's a simply say group of tasks which need to be performed against the DB, right?
For example, this is your DB which has record for A and B, let's say A has ₹100, B has ₹50, and
you are doing it from ₹100 credit to B ₹100.
So here, if you see that this is one transaction, right?
Let's say I can create one transaction and this is the set of operations inside it, right?
This set of operation has been performing against the DB, right.
So I can make this as a transaction.
Right?
Which is is a set of operations which are performed against the DB.
Now, what are the properties of a transaction you might already heard about?
Asset property first is atomicity.
Atomicity says that all operation in a single transaction should be success or all should fail.
Let's say this is a transaction.
It has two operation, right?
Let's say first a debit a ₹100 is getting executed.
This got success.
Now credit B ₹200 to B.
Now let's say this got failed.
So according to this one, this property, what will happen is even the A will get rollback because
it will say that either all should be success or all should be fail, right?
So if any transaction or any operation in a transaction get fail, all the success one will also get
rolled back okay.
Second is consistency.
So before the transaction let's say this before the transaction, what is the state of the DB ₹100?
B is ₹50.
So this is before.
After the transaction has been done, what should be the state?
A should be debit from a 100.
So it should become zero B credit.
It should be ₹150.
Okay, so what does consistency say is that DB should be in consistent state before and after the transaction.
So this is a consistent state before the transaction after this transaction has been performed on it.
This should be the state.
So this is again a consistent state.
But it should not be like A has been done 100.
It makes zero but B got failed and nothing happened.
So B is still let's say ₹50.
This is inconsistent.
It should not be like this.
So before and after the transaction DB should be inconsistent.
State isolation.
Isolation says that if there are more than one transaction that is running concurrently.
It appears that they are running in a serialized manner, right?
So it is possible that there are so many transaction happening.
So this is one transaction debit from a ₹100 credit to be let's say ₹100.
There could be another transaction running which says that debit from be let's say ₹150 credit to see
₹150.
Right.
There could be more transaction happening.
But isolation property says that even though they are multiple transaction happening concurrently because
they are going to.
So each DB operation is going to put a lock.
You know that whenever you touch a row, insert update anything, it put a lock, right.
So isolation says that.
So whenever there are concurrent transactions happening, right, because of this property, it will
look like they are happening in a sequential, let's say first transaction happen, then transaction
two happen, or first transaction two and transaction one all of its operation together, all of its
operation together.
But it is not like that a set of operation one is this transaction one operation.
This is transaction two.
This is transaction one.
This is transaction two.
No, it will always be like sequential manner.
First either all transaction two, then all transaction one or all first transaction one then transaction
two.
That's what isolation property says.
And last one is durability.
After the transaction successfully successfully completed, no matter even if the DB fails, data should
not get lost.
That's what it say.
Even if your DB get failed after transaction is successful, data should get persisted.
Okay, so now you know high level.
What is transaction.
Okay.
So and you might know already done this in your coding.
Now let's say you have a DB.
Currently you have let's say one DB right.
So you have two rows A and B.
And when you are creating a transaction.
So let's say I am creating a transaction now right.
So this is I'm creating one transaction.
Begin transaction.
And you know that whenever you begin a transaction you create you create a transaction on a particular
DB.
Now let's say your DB name is T, right.
So you are starting this transaction on t t db.
This is the DB name.
Right.
So now withdrawal money from ₹100.
So let's say this is all already has 100.
This has or this is a has ₹200 B has ₹100.
So withdrawal withdraw money from a so it will.
What it will do is it will put a lock here.
It will put a lock here and update it to 100.
So now if you see that lock is currently exist deposit money to be.
So it is now going to touch this b row.
So it will before it.
First it will put a lock here.
It will increase it to 100 200 right.
If all success.
Yes.
This is also successfully updated.
This is also successfully updated both the operation.
Then it will do commit.
So now after the commit lock will be removed and the changes will get persisted properly.
Right.
Otherwise, if any of the operation get failed, let's say A got success, B got failed, we will do
rollback.
So all the success one.
Also we will revert the changes back, right.
And ultimately we close the transaction.
So this is work fine.
Why?
It will work fine.
Because we are dealing with only one DB and all the operations are in A for a particular one DB.
But now let's say if I ask you, hey how to handle this in distributed system where operation involves
multiple databases.
Or another way of asking is as transaction is local.
I told you transaction is local.
So local in the sense is only one particular DB it can run as transaction is local to a particular database.
How we will satisfy the transaction property in distributed system.
So now if you see this example right now here in this example, let's say you are purchasing something
from an e-commerce.
And you know that in e-commerce, uh, both order and inventory get touch whenever you buy something.
So now let's say we have two DB.
One is order db and let's say another is.
Inventory db.
Okay.
So now I told you that transaction is local to a particular database.
So you can have transaction here.
And you can have transaction on this DB also.
Right.
All the asset properties you can have here.
And for this transaction you can have maintain the asset property here.
Right.
Now what you're trying to do is you are trying to update the order DB let's say order count was uh order
certain count was 100 and you want to increase it by one.
So you update the order DB by one.
So here the transaction is local.
So it will change it to let's say 101 and done completed.
So this got persisted.
Fine.
Now you are wanted to update the inventory DB.
So let's say you wanted to, uh, so inventory count was 500.
You wanted to reduce by 100.
You wanted to make it 400.
But this got failed.
And when this got failed, it will only roll back if on this DB, if there is any more transaction.
Right?
Since there is no any other transaction, it it won't roll back this one because this is another DB,
right?
So this will not work whenever you are.
Whenever you are set of operation includes multiple databases.
You can't use the transaction one transaction because transaction is local to a particular database,
right.
If one database is done that got persisted.
If another operation in another database got failed, it can't go into another database or transaction
and rollback that one, right.
Because transaction is local to a particular database, right?
So they have their own transaction manager.
They have their own transaction manager.
Now what how to handle this situation.
So we have three ways to handle this situation.
Very very important.
Don't even miss this one.
So first is two phase commit which is very popular and very much used three phase commit which is an
improvement of two phase but not much used because of complexity.
Saga pattern is still used very much.
This is also used a lot, right.
Because it solves a different set of problem itself.
But it takes care of the distributed system transaction, right?
now.
Let's see, uh, one by one.
And just make sure that you understand the concept and all the interview question has been asked.
I will share all the interview question that has been asked to me on top of this also.
So now let's say two phase commit.
As the name says, there are two phases in this protocol.
One is voting.
Or you can say that prepare phase, another is decision.
Or you can say that commit phase.
So prepare or commit or voting or decision.
So there are two phases.
Now let's understand with this one.
So here in the two phase commit.
We need something called transaction coordinator.
So transaction coordinator is the one which interacts with all the participants.
So participants here in this case is you want to update order and inventory DBS right.
Let's say they are microservices.
So one participant is order, another is inventory.
Right.
So these are the two participants.
And coordinator is the one on which this coordinator support both the participant.
Right.
So that is the prerequisite that coordinator should have supported the all the participant on which
you wanted to perform the set of operations.
Okay.
So now let's say application says that hey these are all my set of operations.
Now do it.
Transaction coordinator.
So what transaction coordinator will do.
It will first start the transaction and whatever the operations.
Or you can said that the transactions are the set of operations which we have to run.
It will pass this to all the respective microservices that hey update yourself update let's say update
query to inventory.
Also update query to this.
So till now we are good that we send the.
We started the transaction coordinator and it set the update query to the order microservice.
Also it set the update query to the inventory inventory microservices.
Let's say the same update query is like update order db update inventory db.
Let's say okay.
Now the phase one begins after this one.
So now in the phase one what is the phase one prepare phase or voting phase?
So here in the phase one the coordinator asked all the participants that are you prepare.
Are you prepared to commit.
Right.
So it send this message to the participant inventory also.
And it also sent it to the order also.
Are you prepare Appear.
Then if you see that this operation order is successfully able to put it.
So now you know that whenever any update operation comes, order will have put a lock in its transaction
and made the changes right.
Inventory also has put the lock on its row and made the changes, but not yet committed.
But it has made the changes in the DB but not yet committed.
Okay, so now let's say it successfully updated it.
It successfully updated it.
So order will say that yes okay I am prepared to commit inventory will also say that yes I am also prepared
to commit.
So now in the phase two begins.
So in the phase two when coordinator get all the responses from the participant.
If all the participant says that okay, yes, we are prepared to commit, then what it will do is it
will do decision making Right.
That's why it is called decision.
Second phase is also decision or commit.
So now it will do take a decision.
Okay.
Everybody is ready to commit.
Prepare to commit.
Yes.
Prepared.
Then it will send the commit to all the participants.
Hey let's commit okay.
And they will just say that.
Yes.
Done.
If any of the operation let's say.
Let's say this.
If update is successful in order.
But update operation is failed in inventory.
Okay.
So it would have it it the update of the inventory is failed.
What it will do.
So in the phase one it would have sent prepared.
So order is success.
So it would send okay.
But inventory this update query got failed.
So it would say that no write not prepared to commit.
Now in the phase two, if what it says that it will send the commit only if it get okay from all.
But if anybody says that no, what it will do is it has to abort.
So it will send abort message.
Hey abort to the inventory and abort to the order also.
So it will send abort to the all and it will abort it.
So even whatever the query got.
Uh, updated DB, but not yet committed.
So now because inventory is failed, it send the node to the coordinator.
The coordinator take the decision that okay, one of the participant is failed.
Then I have to abort everybody.
So it will send abort to all the participant.
And then it closed the transaction and return okay.
So this is very simple, right?
We haven't discussed now the actual interview questions come.
What kind of issue can come.
One is transaction coordinator can fail.
Second participant get failed okay.
Because of these two things, what else can happen is because of these two things, what all can happen
is either this prepare message.
The prepare message is lost.
Prepare message lost means participant haven't got the prepare message because let's say coordinator
got failed.
What could be the other problem can come because of this transaction coordinator fail and participant
got failed.
Or it could be possible that this okay message got lost.
This is also get lost.
Let's say uh, participant got filled.
Participant.
Couldn't able send the okay message.
What all program can come is, uh, if coordinator get fail, let's say it couldn't even send the decision.
Either commit or abort message is lost.
This message.
This message is lost.
Let's say because of coordinator is down.
So all these three problems can come.
All these three problems can come because if anybody of this get failed.
Okay.
So now how it deals with it.
So before I tell you how it deals with it, just remember one thing that they also maintain a log file.
Okay.
So now let's see what will happen is now here the coordinator when it is sending a prepare message.
So it will also have this log file.
So this log file is you can say that it's a permanent storage.
This is a permanent storage.
So in the log file it just says that send let's say prepare message.
Okay.
Now participant has got this one.
Now the participant will say that yes you can I am okay sending the okay.
So each participant can maintain their own log file also.
So here order microservice maintaining one log file inventory microservices also maintaining one log
file.
And it will say that yes okay I am sending okay.
This will say that okay I'm sending okay.
Now in the phase two let's say this coordinator has made the decision.
So it will update its log file in the log file we already have let's say prepare message okay.
And now it will say that let's say it has taken a decision that, yes, I have to commit.
Everybody has said, okay, okay, all participant has said, okay, I am taking a decision that I have
to commit.
So it will first write its decision into the log file commit.
This is a permanent one okay.
And then it will send it.
And when it send it each participant can also write that what they got whether.
Yes.
So earlier they send okay okay.
Now they can even write.
Yes.
Commit commit.
They got commit.
Right.
So what I am trying to say is that coordinator participant they before taking every step before sending
a message.
So coordinator before sending a message to the participant right in a log file.
Right.
And similarly participant before even sending the response it also write in their log file.
So each and this is the permanent storage.
So anybody got failed and they come back, they can see their log file and see what happened last,
but how they will use this log file.
Let's see this.
But what are the possible use cases.
So now let's first see this.
What happened to this use case.
This use case when prepare message get lost itself okay.
So now let's see prepare message get lost.
This message got lost.
So now what will happen okay.
Inventory has already put a lock on a transaction.
Right now it's prepare to commit message from the coordinator.
It didn't get it.
Waited for a particular point of time.
It didn't get.
What it will do is it will do abort.
It will do.
Abort the transaction.
So inventory what it inventory micro services after it has updated its operation.
It has put a lock.
Now it waited for the transaction coordinator to send a prepare to commit message.
Prepare message right.
It didn't get it.
So what it will do is it can assume that yes code.
There might be some issue at the coordinator.
So it is fail to it is safe to do the abort.
And it is possible that after participant two has done the abort.
Now after that a prepare message comes what it can send.
It can simply say no.
And when the coordinator receives no, it will abort all the participant.
So this is safe to do.
Abort.
If prepare message is lost okay, this makes sense.
Now let's say the second use case.
What if.
Okay.
Message was lost.
What if this message was lost?
So let's say coordinator has send the prepare message right.
And now it is waiting for the participant to return me a okay message.
Now let's say it.
It got the okay message from order.
But from inventory this message is lost.
Maybe because inventory microservices might have down.
So what it will do.
So transaction coordinator will wait for some time after the timeout happen.
It will do abort right?
It will abort the transaction.
Transaction coordinator will abort the transaction.
So this decision will be taken by transaction coordinator.
Transaction coordinator will abort the transaction.
And here participant.
Abort the transaction.
Because prepare message was not sent by coordinator here.
Participant hasn't sent the okay message.
So after a particular point of time, abort has been happen.
So now let's say after some time this inventory comes up.
Now it is up.
Now it will say that, hey, what happened to this transaction where I have put the lock?
Now, what happens to this transaction?
Shall I do abort or shall I do commit what I do?
So it can simply ask the coordinator, hey, what shall I do for this transaction?
Coordinator can check its log and say that.
Okay, we have done the abort.
You can do the abort.
Okay.
Here you can say that abort.
The transaction is a safe state.
Now the third part is what will happen if the commit message.
Get lost.
If this get lost now, what will happen?
Now, this is where the problem happens.
Because this is where it is blocking the whole system, blocking the whole two phase protocol.
So now here, if you see that between this phase.
This is known this is a blocking phase.
Because now let's say a participant has sent okay okay.
Now just understand with this this is very important.
So this is coordinator this is participant.
It has sent prepare.
It has sent okay okay.
Phase one done.
Now as a part of phase two.
Now let's say this message got lost or this goes down coordinator goes down.
Now what it will do participant.
Because there could be so many participants, it is possible that the commit message has been sent to
it.
Okay.
But this participant.
It didn't get anything.
Now what it will do.
So it is blocked.
Now it has to wait for the coordinator to come up and then it will ask, hey, what happened?
What happened to the transaction?
Now it will send that hey, whether it is abort the transaction or whether we have to commit the transaction.
So coordinator can check its log and it will say that what decision he has taken, whether it has to
commit or we have to abort the transaction so it can identify from its the log which is maintaining
right.
And based on the log.
When the participant asked, hey, what I have to do, then it will tell.
But here if you see that but participant cannot take its own decision.
So that's what the issue with this two phase commit is.
And to resolve this issue only we have three phase commit.
So now here if you see that in the two phase commit.
The problem here is the decision which coordinator has taken whether to commit or abort.
Currently it's holding at a coordinator only participant doesn't know what decision coordinator has
taken.
He doesn't know.
All participant doesn't know.
So in the three phase commit you can say that the phase two is divided into two parts.
So prepare phase is same as two.
It is exactly same as two PC but the.
The commit phase or decision phase of two PC now has been divided into two parts of the three phase
commit.
So one is precommit phase, another is commit phase.
And in the precommit phase, this precommit phase, what actually has been happening is whatever the
decision The coordinator has taken whether to commit or abort, it will send it to the participant also.
Right.
Only decision.
It's not say that hey, you commit, you abort.
No, it is just like I have taken this decision I am sending.
I am informing you to.
In case if IAM goes down, you guys should not block because of me.
You guys use this and take your own decision.
Now let's see how.
So this is a non.
Blocking protocol.
So here the same thing.
Let's say I wanted to perform an operation on order and inventory microservice.
I started the transaction I have.
Triggered the update query.
It has put certain log.
It has put certain lock on its transaction.
Now the phase one begins in the phase one.
It is very similar to the two PC.
Are you prepared to commit?
It will say okay.
It will also say ask the all the participants.
Are you also prepared to commit?
It will say also okay.
Now in the phase two.
Phase two is your pre commit phase right.
So this is your pre commit phase.
So now here it will do a decision.
And what decision it will take a okay I got all okays from all the participant means I am good to go
with the commit right.
So it will again.
It is also maintaining the log file.
So it is also has a log file also.
So in the log file it will do that.
Yes.
Uh Pre-commit is commit.
I want to commit because I want.
I got a okay message from all so it will send a pre-commit message pre-commit information commit.
Do commit.
Or let's say if anybody says know what Pre-commit what decision it will say is that abort.
So it will send the same pre-commit message that you have to abort.
But what it is actually we are doing is we are just sharing the information.
We are not telling the participant to commit or abort now.
No, we are just sharing the information what coordinator has taken.
Right?
So it will also tell the order service that this is the Pre-commit message.
You don't have to commit or abort.
It is just like what decision I am making.
I am also sharing with you that say I wanted to commit.
Okay.
So it says that okay, so they can just acknowledge it that yes, we got it.
Okay, now let's say that in the phase three, it is actually the commit phase.
Now it will actually say that.
Yes, commit whatever the decision they have make.
Now they said commit commit.
And now actually they will actually commit the transaction.
And they will say that.
Yes.
Done.
Right.
So now you can ask that how it is unblocking the participant, the previous use case which we have seen.
So now let's say the same use case.
The same use case.
You have a coordinator you have a participant.
First it sent prepare it send okay okay.
Now it maintain a log file.
Let's say all the participant had sent okay.
So it's prepared to commit is yes commit right.
It will send one.
Prepare to commit to all.
Prepare to commit message.
But now, let's say after that it got failed, right?
Say it is got failed after this.
So at phase three it got failed.
But prepare to commit has been done and it sent the prepare to commit message.
So now here, if you see that participants are unblocked how they can check that.
Hey okay.
Coordinator has taken a decision that it has to commit.
So we are safe to do the commit.
So participant after a timeout they can check their prepare to commit message that yes they got it right.
Because participant also maintains the log file.
They will log everything whatever is happening.
So they will check that yes we got prepared to commit and which they wanted to commit.
Let's commit it.
So participant will commit it.
No problem.
If coordinator says that abort Participant.
What it will do is that it will it will check the after.
If the phase three, it will not actually get abort.
It will say that okay, in the pre-commit what I got in the Pre-commit it get to know that coordinator
has taken a decision that I have to abort.
It will abort it.
So now it is not blocking on coordinator that what I have to do.
And when the coordinator comes up again right it will coordinator will check its own pre-commit file.
Okay.
I have taken a decision to abort it.
I will try to do an abort.
Right.
So everything is already done.
So participant is unblocked actually.
Right.
But now you can ask that hey what will happen?
What if this pre-commit got failed itself?
Let's say this pre-commit before everybody say okay, what about this use case coordinator participant
Prepare message.
Okay, now prepare to commit.
Prepare to commit.
Message got failed.
Right now, let's say or before even message.
You say that even in the log file, there is nothing like a prepare to commit before itself.
Coordinator got failed right before itself.
Coordinator got failed.
What this will do.
What participant will do right.
So what participant will do is participant can know that.
So one more thing which I haven't tell you in the two piece and three piece that or every participant
knows about each other right.
Transaction coordinator what message does is it also makes sure that each participant knows about each
other.
Right.
So they can each participant can even query other participant.
Or you can say that it can query other participant.
Hey, have you got any message from coordinator or not?
Right.
So this capability also present into two phase three phase both.
So now in this case let's say there are two participant.
Participant one.
Participant two.
So they send the okay now participant one and participant two waiting for the prepare to commit message.
Prepare to commit message but prepare to message.
Commit message haven't come.
So participant one they can talk with each other and they will say that hey have you got any prepare
to commit message from the coordinator.
They both can.
They say no we haven't got it.
So now they can say that okay means coordinator might have failed even before he knows what to do,
right?
Even before what?
What decision it has to take so they can simply do abort.
Let's abort the transaction.
Because it is possible that coordinator might not even have taken the decision and when the coordinator
comes up, coordinator will check its log, file coordinator will check its log file and it will say
that hey, okay, what decision I have taken, it will say that I have nothing in my log, means I might
have not sent any pre-commit message to the participant so it is safe to abort.
So it will also try to abort it, which is already done.
Right.
So here if you see that also participants can use the pre-commit by talking to each other that have
you got any pre-commit?
If nobody got means they are safe to abort.
Right.
So these are the ways which through which.
In three phase the participants are trying to unblock themselves.
Right.
Uh, from if coordinator get failed, they should not get blocked.
Okay.
So but again this is very very complex to build here.
So that's why.
Three phase commit is not very popular.
But there is one more thing is called saga pattern.
I have already created one detailed depth video of saga pattern, but I will just tell you how it is
different from two and three.
So two PC and three PC are synchronous in nature.
So this is synchronous.
This is also synchronous.
This is asynchronous.
I'll tell you why how it is asynchronous.
So this is all while transaction is happening in the single flow.
It's happening and customer is waiting.
You can say that for a transaction to complete.
So this is synchronous Saga pattern is asynchronous and also where the Saga pattern use Saga pattern
is used when it's a long trailing activity or long trailing transaction, and it is not feasible to
put a 2 or 3 pieces.
For example, let's say participant one, participant two, participant three, participant four, participant
five, and transaction happening.
So now let's say it goes here.
Then from here it says that.
Now you do.
So it has put into its DB.
So now participant two will do something.
After it successful it will write into its DB commit.
So now in saga pattern you will see that one thing is it's a long transaction.
So many participant involved and it's like a sequential.
You can say that okay one participant does.
Then participant two has to do something.
When Participant two done.
Participant three has to do something when participant three done.
Participant four has to do something like this, then it is not feasible that because I told you whenever
is in two pieces, whenever you do update something, it put a lock.
It is not feasible to put keep the log till all completed successfully and then release it right.
It's gonna be very bad if because this is something very long trailing activity which is happening.
So that's where saga pattern is used in this case right.
So now here in this case that okay.
Participant one you do your update committed.
Now if participant one work is completed it will say that okay.
Now participant two you can start your work now.
Participant two will do its update completed.
Unlock whatever the lock it has put now.
Participant three only can work one.
P2 can because it says that if P2 is fail, P3 cannot even start.
Let's say you have.
There is a kind of a transaction which is like kind of a sequential in nature.
After P1, p2 can start P2, only P3 can start.
So now p2 will make said, okay, I am done.
You do your work.
Okay, it invokes it so it will do.
Update.
It will write this DB commit p4 writes is db commit now p5.
While doing an update let's say p5 got failed, now P5 got failed.
Now what will happen?
Why?
I am saying that saga is asynchronous in nature.
Asynchronous now p5.
What it will do is it will make P4 to rollback how it might publish an event, it might publish an event
and maybe some cue that, some message that failed, some message which got failed.
Now P4 can read this and get determined that okay P got failed, P5 got failed.
I have to roll back my transaction so it will roll back it.
When it got roll back, it might make P3 to roll back.
And when P3 can roll back it might publish an event at which P2 can read and it will roll back itself,
and P2 can, once it roll back, it will publish a message which P1 can read.
It will roll back.
Okay, so now you know how Saga can help in a different scenario.
So saga is totally you can say that helps in a.
So this is again a distributed system.
This is again a one transaction.
But the thing is this transaction is of long trailing P2 can only work after P1 is successful.
Right.
P3 can only work after P2 is successful, so they have to commit it.
They can't put a lock open lock.
Put a lock there till all completed, right.
So if once if anybody fails, they can make others revert back.
Right.
But it's in asynchronous nature.
They can put a queue.
Publish a message.
Other previous one can read that message and say that okay what happened to that?
And it might revert it.
So you got it.
Saga so is saga have already discussed in depth, but I just wanted to tell you that saga is asynchronous.
And what is the use case where Saga try to solve it?
Two pieces and three pieces are synchronous and this is what their use cases.
I hope this is very, very much clear.
But still, if you have any doubt, please let me know in the comment section.
We can have more discussion on top of it.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Database Indexing: B+ Tree, Data Page, Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexing ---

Welcome back on this side.
And today we are going to do database indexing mostly database.
When I say it's a relational database management system which we are going to discuss.
So this question has been very very frequently asked database indexing.
So I will share you my understanding of how database indexing works.
Okay.
So before we start even discussing the indexing right, we have to first understand this three things
right.
How actual the table data is stored.
First thing that should be cleared, how table data rows are actually stored.
What type of indexing present, understanding the data structure used for indexing and how it works.
Right?
So once we have this three better clarity, then only we can understand how DBMs make use of all these
three things and able to perform the indexing Okay, so one thing was I would tell you that, uh, so
whenever the tables which you have, let's say you have a table, this is row.
This is column, right.
And you have a data one, two three, 4ABCD.
Right.
So generally what question or what whenever the indexing come generally what engineer might be saying
that okay we will create an index on this particular.
Let's say we are doing an indexing on this particular column.
So we will create an index 12345.
Right.
And it will point to this rows right.
And any query will happen.
It will happen on top of it.
It will able to fetch faster okay.
You want for.
So on this index it will able to find the faster.
And it will goes to point to the particular row.
Okay.
So what I'm trying to say is that this is very high level.
But today we are going to step down into one level deeper because that's where the interview follow
up questions asked.
Okay, so now let's go into a little bit deeper.
And I'm not going to shut down or cut down this video shorter because if even if it is go a little bit
longer I will continue to it.
I will not do any trimming for sure.
Okay.
So let's first discuss how data is actually stored.
Very very important.
So now let's say this is your table.
You have a row one two, three four rows and three columns.
And let's say these are the three columns employee ID name and address.
So this is generally a very very you can say that typical table let's say employee table.
So this is just a logical representation.
This is just a logical representation.
This is now this is not how actual the data is stored in the DB, right?
This is just a logical representation, not a physical representation.
Remember that.
Okay, so when we say that hey this is logical representation, then how the actual data is stored okay.
So now let's say in our table we have this data for rows three columns.
So what DBMs will do.
What DBMs will do.
Database management system what it will do.
It will create data pages right.
And one data page generally it's generally of eight kb in size.
Depends upon what DB you are using okay.
But generally the size of one data page is eight kb okay.
Each data page can store multiple table rows in it.
Okay, so now we know that this is just a logical representation.
These rows are actually stored in data pages which DBMs creates, right?
How so?
This is how a typical database looks like.
So when I say that it's an eight KB.
So in eight KB how many bytes are there 8192 bytes okay.
Now 96 bytes are reserved for the header in a header.
What generally information it has.
It has page number how much free space this page has checksum and etc. okay.
So header information I would say that uh it has very basic information like page number, free space
checksum etc. which is 96 byte.
After that 806 bytes, 8060 bytes are reserved for data records.
When I say that data records, it is actually the rows.
So here the actual the rows will be stored.
So actual data is stored in here.
And last 36 byte is known as offset array actually.
So what does offset contains is it contain an array.
And each index of an array holds a pointer to the corresponding data in the data records.
Right.
So in this data page this is an header.
Let's say it has the pages.
Row one data.
Row two data.
Row three data.
Let's say only three rows are there.
In this offset there is an array.
0123.
So zero will point to let's say row one.
One will point to let's say row two.
So what I mean to say is that this offset array contains a array of.
You can say that a pointer and this what it point to it point to the actual rows.
Now you can ask me, hey why we need this offset array.
We will see that how it helps DBMs.
But don't worry.
First of all what I want you to understand is how database looks like.
So one thing, very basic thing you should know is DBMs creates data page and inside a data page actual
the rows are stored.
Okay, so that only you should understand at this point of time.
And don't worry about the offset array.
We will see with an example and how DBMs make use of it.
Okay, so offset is just an array of you can say that pointer pointer to what pointer to the particular
row inside a data records space Okay, so total eight KB data pages, and out of this eight KB 8060
byte is actually there for the rows or actual data, and rest is for header and offset array.
Okay, so now it's clear that these rows which we are creating, it looks like it is creating.
It's stored like a table.
But actually it is going here in the data page.
So now let's see this.
So if one table row is let's say 64 bytes.
So now let's say this row one is of 64 bytes.
So this is let's say I'm just saying hypothetically let's say it is 16 bytes right.
This is also 16 bytes right.
This is 32 bytes.
I'm just saying.
And it all combined to 64 bytes.
So one row.
One row is your 64 bytes.
Right.
And we know that for storing the rows how many bytes it is available in a data page.
8060 bytes.
So 8060 divided by 64.
So almost around 125.
It comes so means in one data page.
If it is a size of eight KB, then we can store 125 DB rose in it, right?
If one row is of 64 bytes and one data page is of eight kb, then we can have 125 DB rows in it, right?
And how data page is generally look like.
So we have header.
So I have just kept for simplicity only page ID or page number like one.
Right.
And then the second part is your data record.
Data record which actually holds the data, the the way the row is inserted into a table or by a user.
In the same way, generally the rows are inserted.
So user has inserted row one.
So it has inside this input.
Row one.
Row two.
Row three.
Row four.
Row two.
Row three.
Row four.
And if let's say it has added five row five okay.
Like this.
It will add how many it can store 125 DB rows.
It can hold.
Then what is the third step.
Third step I told you it's an offset array.
So here I have created an offset array.
Okay so this offset array has index like an array 012345.
Right 01234.
So zero it is pointing to.
Let's say row two.
This one is pointing to row four.
Two is pointing to row five.
Three is point three is pointing to row three.
And fourth index is pointing to R1.
Okay.
So what does offset array hold is now it's clear it's an array.
And this array actually contains a pointer.
Pointer to what the actual data which is present inside the this data page.
Now you can ask me like hey what is this ordering at zeroth index R2 is stored right.
And at fourth index R1 is stored.
So doesn't make sense right?
It is not ordered.
Not increasing order.
Not decreasing order.
What is this order.
right?
So don't worry about that part, because when I will come to that, then it will make sense.
Better how DBMs is make use of offset array.
But now you should be clear with this that how your data is actually stored by a DBMs.
So this table is actually visible to you.
But for DBMs the way it is stored is like a data page.
So for each page it gives a number and it stores the data in a page like in this data records area.
Right.
And for each this rows there is an offset.
It also maintains the offset also where it put a pointer.
And the ordering DBMs will decide when we discuss about indexing.
Okay.
Till now it is clear right?
All these numbers which I am saying eight KB, eight KB 64 bytes.
That depends.
Right?
That depends upon db to db.
So, but for this one this is the most common.
Generally you will see data pages eight by eight KB.
Cool.
So till now we know that okay this table how it is represented in one page.
So DBMs remember that DBMs creates and manage this data page.
So this this page whichever we have talked who manages DBMs.
So total control over the DBMs.
So for storing one table data it can create many data pages.
So now let's say this table grows and it contains let's say row 10,000 like row 10,000.
So definitely 10,000 rows cannot come into page one right.
So it's upon DBMs only to create multiple pages.
It will create page two, page three, page four, or page 100 and keep on storing the rows in it.
Okay, so DBMs creates and manages this data pages.
And for storing one data table data it can create many data pages.
Okay I know that the very big questions coming to your mind here.
If there are hundreds of pages, how DBMs is gonna manage it right.
We will come to that one.
But for now, for simplicity, a table data is generally stored in a data page and one data page is
full.
DBMs can create more data pages and keep on storing the table data.
Till now, very basics.
We know now where these data pages ultimately get stored.
These data pages ultimately get stored in the data block.
Now, this data block is actually a physical memory.
This is actually a physical memory, right?
Like disk on a disk.
There is a so you know, right disk.
And then there would be a some sector track.
So there would be one data block.
You can say that data block.
So what does data block means.
First understand what is data block means.
So data block is the minimum amount of data which can be read and write by one input output operation.
So you can say that this is the minimum amount of data.
Which 1IO operation can read or write right.
So this is the minimum amount of data which you can fetch in a single shot.
Or which data blocks can have 1IO operation.
Okay.
And who manages this data block.
It is managed by the underlying storage system.
Let's say like disk or HDD.
Let's say if it has data block.
So it is managed by storage system.
Underlying storage system.
So remember that data block is not managed by DBMs.
It is not managed by DBMs.
It is managed by storage underlying storage system like this.
Data manage DBMs.
Manage only data page.
Right.
So whatever the data you have, you have to put into somewhere into the memory or disk.
Right.
And inside a disk what ultimately we have is data block.
So these data pages which DBMs creates, who creates it, which DBMs creates ultimately get stored where
inside a disk or inside a memory.
Right inside a disk.
So it stored actually in the data blocks, and DBMs has no control over this data blocks.
It can be scattered.
So now let's say if this disk has thousands or millions of data blocks, let's say DBMs has no control
that okay, my page one goes here in this data block.
My page two for example.
It can go into this data block.
Data block let's say 100 data block.
Let's say one.
So what I'm trying to say is that DBMs only has control till data pages.
It can decide what data I can store into this, what rows I can store into a particular database.
Right.
But when it is writing to the actual disk memory, right, then it ultimately gets stored into a data
block and it has no control over it.
Okay, so now you know what is data block?
It is the minimum amount of data which can be read and write by an input output operation.
So data block size can range from four KB to 32 kb.
And most common size is eight kb.
So now let's say your data page which dbms's manage it is of eight KB.
Data block which actually stores the data in the like a physical location.
It range from.
Four KB to 32 KB.
But most commonly you will find is also same like an eight KB.
So if it is eight KB means one data block, one data block stores one data page only.
But if it is, let's say 32 KB then it can store multiple data pages.
Data page one, data page two, data page three.
Right.
So one data block itself can store multiple data pages okay.
So based on the data data block size it can hold one or many data page okay.
Now there is one more thing is DBMs maintains the mapping of the data page and data block.
Because I told you that DBMs has no control over the data block.
Where this particular page where my page, where the data page is stored, it has no control over it.
So that's why it maintain a mapping.
Ping.
That's why DBMs maintains a mapping that hay data.
Page one goes into this address.
Data block one.
Data page two ultimately goes to this address data block one itself.
So it is possible that one data block.
This is let's say data block one.
One data block can hold multiple pages.
Data page one.
Data page two.
It's stored in the same data block.
Because data block size can be higher than the data page right.
So DBMs maintains this mapping that okay this my my my this page because DBMs maintain this page.
Right okay.
This page one is stored in this block.
This page two is stored in this block.
This page three is stored in this block, right.
Like this.
So remember DBMs controls the data page.
Like what rows goes inside, in which page or sequence of the page, etc., but has no control on the
data block.
Data block can be scattered over the disk.
Okay, so I think you should be clear with till now.
The first part how the table data actually stored in the DB.
So this is not this is just a logical representation.
The ultimately stored in a data page for one table.
There can be so many data pages right.
And each data page is stored in ultimately the physical memory of data block.
And one data block can hold many data pages.
Right.
And DBMs maintains the mapping.
Also which page goes into which data block.
Okay.
Till now we are clear.
Now let's see the second part.
What type of indexing present in RDBMS?
Now here, if you see that the things become little.
You can say that.
Interesting.
So this name you might have heard a lot.
Clustered indexing and non-clustered indexing.
I know the things which will be going in your mind.
Primary index.
As soon as you heard a name indexing it you will be like primary index.
Secondary index.
And what is that composite index like?
There would be so many indexing.
So all this things should have come in your mind.
But from the indexing DBMs perspective they are categorized into two types clustered indexing.
Non clustered indexing.
So forget about like before we understand clustered index and non-clustered indexing, first we have
to understand what is indexing.
When we are saying indexing, indexing indexing.
But what does indexing means right.
What data structure is used for doing that?
Indexing how it works.
Then we can come to that okay clustered and non clustered.
But first we have to better understand what indexing is how it is done.
So in a simple term if I say that what indexing is, it is used to increase the performance of the database
query so that data can be fetched faster.
Okay.
So indexing is just nothing but doing to increase the performance of the query, so that it helps us
to find the data much faster.
Without indexing, DBMs has to iterate each and every table row to find the requested data.
so you know that it maintain the data pages.
Data page one.
Let's say there are.
Thousand data pages inside this thousand data pages there are, let's say one lakh rows data.
Right now, if you have to find something that, hey, give me data with employee ID 35.
Now DBMs doesn't know that which this employee 35 record goes into which data page it doesn't know.
All DBMs has till now is indexing okay.
This data page is goes into this block.
So what it can do is that in a worst case it will iterate over this mapping.
Okay.
My page one it will goes to this physical memory row.
Load the data.
Load this block into the main memory.
Take out the rose.
Read this page and see it.
Read this page and see that hey, does employee ID 35 present know if it is?
No, it goes to the second one.
Okay.
My page two is store is in this block again.
So it is already in memory.
So it will load that page page two.
Right.
And then it will again its page two.
It will check all its rows.
Hey have I found this employee ID 35 or not.
Let's say for example, worst case this employee is present in the last data page, the last mapping
which is present here.
Then it has to iterate over all the data pages and inside all the data pages it has to iterate over
all the rows.
So what is the worst time complexity?
Big O of n.
So without indexing it has to check each and every row.
Right.
And if there are let's say millions of rows present.
Query can take some time to fetch the data, right?
Because it has to goes to that particular data block from the mapping.
Fetch the data, load into the memory, read the data page, take out its rows, and then read it and
see.
So we know that indexing is used to make the query run faster.
Without it it would be big O of N, but with it, what would be the best time complexity we can give?
So there is a data structure which is used which is known as B+ tree.
It provides big O of log n time complexity for insertion, searching and deletion.
So this is very very frequently used B+ tree while for doing the indexing right.
So without indexing big O of N is the time complexity to search any data inside a table With indexing.
Our purpose is to make our searching faster and which data structure it use.
It uses B+ tree, right?
So B here is stand for balanced actually.
So now till now we are slowly understanding okay what indexing is and why for making the indexing works
what data structure is used B+ tree it provide a big O of log n time complexity.
So before I go further into the cluster non-clustered index, let's first see how B-tree works.
It will clear your mind actually how this data indexing works.
So I'll talk about B-tree.
So B-tree and B+ tree is very, very similar right.
So if you understand B-tree B plus tree is somewhere near to exactly same okay.
So now I am saying B-tree and at last I will said that it is a B plus three.
How it adds certain additional feature, but both are exactly same.
So I'm just telling you how B3 works so it maintains the sorted data.
Okay, all leaves are at the same level.
M order B3 means each node can have at most m children.
For example, two order B tree means each node can have at most two children.
Three order B tree means each node can have at most three children.
Right?
You can have any number of this m m order.
So you can have, let's say five order B tree means you can have at most five children.
Okay.
And m minus one keys per node.
So now here, if you see that when I say that let's say three order B tree.
So let's say this is the three order B tree.
So it can have three children.
So in one node.
So in the three order B tree a one node can have three minus one m minus one keys.
Right.
So three minus one two.
So it will have one key here one key here right.
And it will have pointers here.
So this is a pointer.
This is a pointer.
So this pointer will point to this child node.
Let's say this is key one.
This pointer will point to this pointer child node two.
And let's say this is key two.
And this pointer will point to this one.
So in one node if in three order B-tree you can maximum have m minus one.
So three minus one two keys here and three pointers.
And each three pointers can point to a child.
So now you can say that hey what this three pointers generally signifies.
So let's see that we'll come to that part.
So now let's say that I'll totally show an example how it will become totally clear.
Let's store the below data in a three order B-tree.
So three order B-tree means it will have how many keys?
M minus one three minus one, two keys.
So I have here.
Key one.
Ki one and Ki two and it will have three pointers.
Pointer one.
Pointer two.
Pointer three.
So now here if you see that this pointer one left one so left one is like always point to the child
node which is less than this ki less than this ki.
And the right one is like greater than equals to this one.
So this pointer one will be whatever the child it will point to.
All its data would be less than this ki.
And whatever this pointer to which is on the right side of this ki, whatever the child it will point
to, ultimately all its data could be greater than equals to this ki, right?
So similarly for this ki two, this pointer two is it's at left side.
So whatever the child it will point to it will have a data less than ki two only.
And this pointer will have a whatever the child it will point to.
It will have data greater than equals to right.
So that's why here we have two keys three pointers.
So that's how one node can have three childs.
That's why three order maximum three child you can have right now let's see an example.
Let's understand with an example.
It would be super clear.
So don't worry about till now what we have uh understand about this uh DB right.
Pages and all.
So we will come back to again and everything will start making the dots clear.
But keep that till in your back of your mind that whatever we have is known till now.
Okay.
So now let's say we want to store this data into a B-tree.
Okay.
So I am using a three order B-tree okay.
So how many so understand this.
This line is a pointer.
Let's say this is one pointer two pointer and third three pointer and two nodes m minus one nodes.
So two nodes.
So this is the nodes slots I have.
So first I want to store nine.
So I have a key.
So this is the key one.
So I have a space.
So I have stored a nine here okay.
Now I want to store the data 33.
So it always maintain the sorted data I have a space in this node itself right.
So I have stored in the sorted order 33.
So both my keys are now full.
So it also has the data.
This also has the data.
Currently these pointers are pointing to nothing.
This is pointing to nothing.
Now I want to store 75.
So where I would store now because in my node because I'm creating a three order tree.
So in the three order I can only hold two nodes.
Two keys.
Now where I would store 75.
So now what it will do is that in the sequencing order it is like nine 3375.
So what it will do is so what it will do is it take the middle one and take it to the parent.
Right.
So now what I have done is I have created a new node from the middle one, from the middle one of this
three and make it to the parent of this.
So now 33 now 33 left pointer points to this 33 right pointer will point to this.
So left pointer means less than 33.
Right pointer could have like greater than equals to 33 data.
It will hold Okay, so till now it's all clear.
And this is how the data will look now.
Now we want to store 41.
So 41 where we will store.
So it will first check at the 33.
41 is greater than 33.
Yes.
It goes to the right side.
Now here if you see that here 75.
So 41.
So it will sort this.
So it will do 4175 and it will see that yes, there is a sufficient space.
Right.
So it will store it.
So this is how it will get stored after 41.
Right.
Because 41 is greater than 33.
It goes to a right side from the pointer.
And then it is stored in a sorted manner.
And it has two nodes we can keep.
So it's okay.
Now we want to insert 98.
So 98 is greater than 33.
It goes to the right hand side.
Now it wants to store over here.
So now again, 41, 75, 98, in a sorted form.
But again, we can't store three keys because it's a three level, three order B-tree.
We can only store two.
So what it will do is we will take the mid one and take it to the parent.
So its parent is 33.
There is a space.
So it will store there and 75 left will point to 41 and its right will point to 98.
So this one is like less than data 75.
This one is greater than equals to 75.
It will point two.
Now we want to insert 214.
Now I think you got the point right.
What we are doing.
So 214 it will check uh where it will go.
It will say that okay it is greater than 75.
So it will goes here greater than equals to 75.
It will go here.
There is already a slot empty, so it will put it here in the sorted manner.
214.
Now let's say we want to insert 126 126 is greater than 75.
It goes to its right.
Right.
And uh 98 217.
So this is the sorted how it would look like.
But it breaks the B-tree because we can't store three nodes, only two nodes, two keys we can store.
So this has to be mid one.
After sorting it has to take out.
So now it has to takes to the parent.
So 3375 126 126 left will point to this 98.
Its right will point to 214.
But here if you see that this parent itself will get break now because we can't store.
Three 3375 126 we can't hold it.
So this further has to be taken out a mid 175.
Now it should have goes to its parent.
So there is no parent.
We created a new node.
7575 left will point to 3375.
Right pointer will point to 126.
33 left is already pointing to nine.
It's 33, right already pointing to 41.
So it is like this.
So you got it right.
How B-tree is stores the data in a sorted manner.
And plus it can we can construct array or m order of b-trees.
Right.
So let's say now I'm storing 55.
55 is 55 is less than here.
It is greater than this.
It will go here.
There is a free slot 41 free slot was there.
So it will store the 55 here.
Similarly for 72, I think you can do now yourself that it will come here, but it will break, it will
divide 55, it will take it to the parent and how it will look like.
So this is how B-tree works, right?
So now you know that balance tree.
This works.
I might have explained faster because you can learn this data structures more in depth or you can implement
it.
But without understanding this indexing understanding the indexing would be incomplete.
So b b plus tree is exactly the same as B-tree, with additional feature that child nodes are also linked
to each other.
So in the B plus three it has additional feature that this all child nodes are linked to each other.
So that's okay if you understand the B-tree B plus tree is also exactly the same.
So now let's come back again to our DBMs.
DBMs is using the B+ plus three to manage its data page.
Because I told you that for one table, if it is, let's say one lakh rows, it can have so many data.
Page data.
Page one.
Data.
Page two.
Data.
Page 100, let's say.
And inside each data page there will be hundreds of rows.
So there might be some kind of ordering right.
How to order those.
Right.
So that's where we that's where B plus tree comes into the picture.
DBMs uses B plus three to manage its data page and rows within that pages.
How?
Okay, so just have this like it is using the B-tree.
Exactly the same, only with slight differences.
References.
The root node or intermediary node holds the value, which is used for faster searching the data possible
that value might be deleted from the DB, but it can be used for sorting the tree right?
Leaf node actually holds the indexed column value.
Don't worry, I'll tell you what I mean to say that how what Dbms's do.
We will see that.
So what I mean to say is that here is.
So here when we are maintaining the B+ tree, the ultimately the leaf node, this leaf nodes actually
holds the index values.
So let's say this is the column in this column I am.
This is I want to put an index.
So this is the index column.
So what is the index value.
1925 3017 615.
So these leaf node are actually the one which holds this index values.
The root node and the intermediate node.
This root node and intermediate node might store some data, let's say 32, which might even not even
there.
Earlier it was there, but it might have deleted.
It's not even there now.
So it is possible that it might be present here into the root node or intermediate node, because they
just help us to do a faster searching, go left, go right and all.
But this leaf node actually holds this current values of the column which is index.
Right.
That's what I meant to say.
Okay.
So now let's see how DBMs is actually using B+ tree to maintain the data pages and indexing.
Now let's say this is the table Very basic table.
Right.
How many rows?
123.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Seven rows are let's say row one.
Row two to row seven.
Right.
And we have two.
Column.
Column one.
Column two.
Very basic table.
Now I have put an index on employee ID I have put an index on this employee ID.
So we know that whenever we are putting an index now DBMs will apply B plus three on it.
Apply what B plus three on it to to manage this data.
How.
Right.
So exactly the same way which we it has done exactly the same way.
It will do this.
So now this is the column where I have put the index.
Now it will read this 19 2530.
So now it will start creating a B-tree out of it.
Right.
So what?
Before even so don't look at this pointer now.
Right.
I will explain you.
But now see this first is 19.
So you know that I am still using the three order.
So in three order means how many one node how many keys you can store M minus one which is two right.
So and there how many pointers would be there.
Three pointers would be there.
And two keys I can store.
So 19.
So in the key one I have stored 19 okay.
Don't forget about this pointer.
Now this pointing to the data page and all.
Forget about this.
Let's first focus on this construction of a B-tree.
The second is 25.
So now the second row is coming 25.
So the key to was empty.
So I have put 25 into this part.
Third one is 30.
So now if I put 30 here it will break because it's a three order tree.
In one node you can have only two keys.
You can't put 30.
So you have after sorting whatever the mid one is you have to take it to its parent.
So it will look like this.
So there were no parents.
So I created a new node.
I put 25 there.
25 now left pointer will point to 19.
And its right pointer will point to this node which holds 2530.
So now this is the first difference.
You should notice I told you right in the DBMs when it used B+ tree leaf node actually holds a index
column value.
These are the index column values right.
So leaf node Stores it.
The left pointer holds less than 25.
Right pointer stores greater than equals to 25.
So here if you see I have put the 25 here also I have put the 25 here also because in the leaf node
itself we hold this value.
In future it is possible that 25 row is deleted.
So I might delete this but this could still be there.
This is an intermediate node.
This is just for faster searching.
Anything comes here goes to right this right you will find values greater than equals to 25.
But this does not signify that this is the index column value in the DB which is stored.
No okay.
Got it.
So.
This 25.
Right.
We have to put greater than equals to 25.
So we are restoring the 25 right.
So 25 would be stored here.
And 30.
So in a sorted manner then what we have to store 17.
So in this 17 where it will go it is lesser than 25.
It goes to the left side of it, 17 is lesser.
So it will go to this.
There is already one space present, so it will store in a sorted manner.
So 17 first 19.
Later after that six where the six will go.
So six is lesser than 25.
It will goes there.
Now there is no child.
So generally six would be in the first of six, 17, 19 sorted manner.
But again three keys we can't store over here.
We have to now divide, take a bit one.
Take it to the parent who is the parent 25.
So it will in a sorted manner 1725.
2517 left will point to.
16.
17.
Right.
Because this is a still have the index value.
Right.
So it will point to 17 and 19 greater than equals to 1717 and 19 and 25.
Right will point to it's 2530.
So you see that three child it has currently each node.
Then we want to store one.
So one is uh less than 17.
It goes to left.
So there is one space.
So it is stored in a sorted manner one six.
Similarly the five so the five lesser than this it goes here.
So generally the five should be here in between of one and six.
But it will break.
So three keys we can't have it.
So it should goes to the parent right.
If five goes to the parent, the five left would become one five right.
Greater than equals to five.
When it's a key also.
So five should also be there five and six.
But at the parent level you can't have three nodes right.
So again the mid one five 1725.
Again it has to go to the top.
So it's hold five.
It's right.
Hold 25.
Now here if you see that I am not putting 1725.
Right.
Because this is just an intermediate node.
Intermediate node I told you that it is not index column index values.
Column index values are only the leaf right.
So I am only changing the intermediate node.
It's going top.
So that's why I don't have to put 17 here because it's not index column index value.
So 17 right will point to 25.
And this thing Interesting.
So it will be.
So this B tree is constructed.
So now here if you see that at the bottom this bottom part this bottom part this is now sorted.
So here we have a mixed data.
But bottom what we have now of this B tree is
156 1719 2530 C sorted.
Right.
Now we understand that okay.
How whenever we make any column index, whenever we make any column index DBMs do B plus three on it,
but shreyansh how the data pages are created.
Now how it gonna link because Cause you told that one table can have 100 of data.
Page data.
Page one.
Data page 100.
How those gonna manage.
Right.
So because these are actually has the row.
So what till now I have understood is okay DBMs has so many data pages data page one.
Data page two.
Like this.
Each data page is stored in a data block.
And one data block can have many pages like page one.
Page two.
Data block can have certain, let's say page five, page six something DBMs maintains the mapping of
page.
Page one, block one, page two.
Let's say again block one.
Like this it mapping it does.
I know that whenever any column is indexed right, it maintains a bee tree.
You now understand how bee tree is constructed, so that the data of this column is now in the sorted
manner, in a sorted manner.
But now we need to connect the dots.
So now bee tree exists.
I understand this, I know data pages, I know data block.
But what is the dots connecting to all of this.
Now let's understand this.
Okay.
Now let's understand this.
Our table has empty and we are doing inserting the row from the start.
Right.
So now let's say we have make this column indexed.
And now only first row is inserted 1981 this is the row I told you now that first what DBMs will do.
It will create a B+ tree right for this data also, so it will put 910.
Now remember in DBMs with this key it will also hold one more pointer value.
Or you can say that the pointer with this key is which ultimately points that this belongs to which
data page this 19 is stored in which database.
So now let's say I told you that this is the first time we are creating a table.
This is the first row.
So data page is currently empty.
So I created a data page one and stored one row 19 E one and stored put a pointer here that okay this
19 is pointing to this data page one.
And let's say this data page can only hold three rows can only hold three rows okay.
So when I put 19 So DBMs ultimately actually this is just our representation.
DBMs what ultimately has done is it created a data page one stores in this 19 E one row.
It created a B-tree on this index column.
It also maintaining the index put a 19 with this 19.
It also maintains one more pointer that this 19 row belongs to this data page.
And also this data page ultimately has to be stored in some memory or data block.
Let's say it is stored in one.
So it is also now storing this data page one data block stored in one.
So this is the data page one in the disk.
Okay.
So now second row is inserted.
So when second row is inserted it is inserted where in the data page first.
So data page second row is inserted because data page can hold three rows.
It is only the second row it is inserted properly.
Now it will update its indexing because new row is inserted right?
It has to update it indexing.
So it will check that okay one node is free, one key is free.
So it will put 25 here and also manage one more pointer with it.
And this pointer that 25 is stored in where data page one only it put this pointer in which data page
this 25 holds.
This record holds right till now database is in data block one only now 30.
So when 30 is stored.
So first it will stored in the data page one only right.
So because it has the space right.
So you can or you can say that first what it will do is it will try to see that which data page it has
to pick.
Right.
So one more question.
It has to comes to your mind that, hey, if there are so many databases already exist, and when you
inserting a new row, let's say we are inserting 30.
This is data page one, data page two, data page 100.
Which data page to pick and insert.
Which data page right?
This is a very interesting question that whenever you insert a row which data page you will insert it
how DBMs knows it.
So this is how it knows it through B-tree only.
So when inserting a 30.
So first it will goes that tries to insert a 30 into the.
Tree B-tree.
So it will see that okay it will try to construct a tree.
You already know that how we did it.
So ultimately it gonna be look like 19 and here 2530.
So what it will see is that, hey, my nearest index is stored in which data?
Page 25 was stored in data page one.
So what it will do is DBMs will try to load check the data page one.
Right.
So from its data page one memory it will check out its mapping database one.
It is there in the data block one it will load it right.
And what it will put is this row and put it back into the data block.
Right.
And one more pointer it will store with 30 is that it is stored in data page one.
Got it.
We will see one more example.
Now let's say 17 I want to store now which data page.
So let's say if you have so many databases which data page it has to pick how it will determine.
First it will go into this B-tree.
It will try to find out the correct logical sequence of this 17.
So 17 is less than 25.
It goes here there is a space available.
So it will be stored here.
Now it will check its neighbor index that which database it is stored and it pick one of the very uh
you can say that one of the data page.
So 19 is stored there.
So 19 is stored in data page one.
Right.
So it will see that okay let me pick also data page one.
So what it will do is DBMs will pick the data page one.
So data page one it knows that it is stored in data block one.
It will hit the goes to the memory loaded from the data block one.
It loads the data page one.
Now in the data page one we already know that it is full three data it already has.
It cannot insert 17 now what to do now?
What it will do is.
DBMs will do page splitting.
Page splitting.
So now in the page splitting it will split or create one more page.
So it will create new page.
Page two.
Right.
And it will split the data.
So earlier page one has 19 2530 now 17.
It has to store.
And now it will just split the data.
So now let's say in page one it puts 1719 rows data.
And in the page two it put rest of the data whatever the page one.
So page one has this three data right 19 2530.
So whenever it pick a particular page so it picked page one.
Page one has no space.
So now the page splitting happen.
So in the page splitting a new page is constructed.
And it divide the data of the page one plus this new data.
Right.
So 1719 I have put into page one and 2530 I have put here in the page two.
Right.
It can be anything depending upon the DBMs and it will update the pointer.
So now 17 will point to that.
It is in page 119.
It will update its pointer that it is also in page one.
Now it will update the pointer 25 is present into page 230.
It updated that it now at present into page two.
Earlier 30 was present into page one.
So it has to update the pointer.
So it will update the pointer that this index value 30.
It's all corresponding data is present into page two.
And also it will maintain a mapping that hey this page two is stored in let's say data block one itself.
Okay.
Now what data we have to stored after 17, let's say six.
So it will try to insert a six.
Six will go here.
Okay.
So first it will try to identify its correct logical location.
Okay.
So it will find out its that okay 17 has to be go up it it find out its correct location.
Now it will check its nearest neighbors nearest index in which database it has.
So nearest its all are linked in B plus three I told you right.
So it will check that okay this 17.
This 17 is stored in page one.
So it what it will try.
It will try to insert the six into page one.
So DBMs will load the page one.
So from the physical memory it goes to a data block one loads the page one.
Page one has.
Now these two records it will insert.
The page one already has 17 E4 19, E1.
It will store the six also because three we can store, so it will store six and six.
Data is e5 e5 right.
And it will update the pointer of this to that.
It is stored in page one.
Similarly for one also.
So ultimately once goes here.
Now here can you tell me one when it goes to the one one will see its to its neighbor.
Hey which database you are stored in six will say that hey, I am stored in data page one, so DBMs
will try to insert the one into also into the data page one.
So it will load the data page one.
It can easily load it that it has the data.
Page one is stored in block one.
So now it will restore page one.
Page one already has three rows.
It is totally full now 17, 19, six, 17, 19, six and its data e4, e1, e5, e4, e1, e5.
Some data is already there.
Now it try to insert one, but you can't insert one, right?
It's already full.
So what will happen now?
Page is splitting so it will create a new page.
So page two was already there.
So it will create let's say page three.
It will now split the data.
So let's say it's 1719.
It will keep here and it will put let's say one and six here.
One and six here.
Right.
And it will update the pointer.
So one is now pointing to page three.
Six is also now pointing to page three.
It has to update the pointer.
Earlier six was pointing to page one.
Now it has two.
After splitting six has to points to page three.
Right.
And also it will add a new mapping also that.
Page one is there in block one.
Page two was there in block two.
Block one.
Now it will have the let's say page three goes into let's say block two somewhere while storing into
the memory.
It knows that in which block it goes.
So it does the mapping now does everything making sense to you that how everything is linked.
Right.
One thing I still haven't told you about this offset array.
How this offset array is used.
I will tell you when I tell you about clustered non-clustered, but till now tell me that in the comment
section.
Is it clear to you I'm going very slow?
You know right how the table data is actually stored in a page.
There can be this page ultimately gets stored into data blocks.
So DBMs has to maintain the mapping page versus block right.
Then for indexing B plus three I think it should be clear to you.
We have seen with an example.
So whenever we insert a row it first put its logical ordering into the B-tree, determine the best page.
It has to be stored because there can be so many pages.
Determine the best page where this data has to be stored, right?
So we have seen an example that where the logical ordering is it.
Check its neighbor and try to load that page and see if I can, if that can be accommodated in that
page.
If not, page splitting happen whenever.
Page splitting happen, a new page is created and it just split the data.
Right?
And it has to update the pointers also.
It might be possible that earlier this.
A neighbor node 25.
Let's say it was storing into page one.
But after splitting 25 goes into page two.
So this pointer has to be updated.
And whenever any new page is stored, when whatever the data block is ultimately inserted, DBMs has
to maintain the mapping.
Clear.
Till now.
Cool.
Now let's come back to the indexing part.
Hey, what is the two type of indexing?
Clustered and non-clustered.
Now I know that.
What is how indexing how DBMs actually does the indexing.
But what are these two type of indexing.
So see first let's understand the indexing.
Cluster indexing says that order of rows inside the data page match with the order of the index.
Order of rows inside the data page match with the order of the index.
Let's see with an example what I'm trying to say.
So what?
What?
So let's say this is the table
1452ACBD.
And this is the address.
Okay.
So I told you at first that in the data page, whatever the sequence in which the rows are inserted
into a table, generally in that order, only the rows are inserted into a page only.
Right.
So if you are creating a employee ID one.
So here in the data page the this row will come first after four, then five, then two.
Now let's say I have put an index over here.
Now you know that when you put an index DBMs will do B-tree on this index and it will have the sorted
one, two, four, five.
Now you know that right now one, two, four, five this at the base it would be sorted only.
And one will also hold a pointer to this.
So when we say that right one will hold a pointer to this one row.
How ultimately actually this one will hold point to pointer to this page in which this row is present
right now.
Here the sequence indexing sequences that one, two, four, five and in the page order is one, four,
five, two.
The way it is inserted, rows are inserted one, four, five, two.
But here you are saying that the order of rows inside the data page match with the order of the index.
That's what clustered indexing says how we maintain the order.
Because you are saying that the order of the rows which are inserted in a data page is depend upon how
we inserted actually.
Right.
So we inserted 1452.
So it is stored like this 1452.
But indexing on this column indexing is in sorted order.
So it should be 1245.
So the order of the rows should be one two, four, five.
How?
That's where the offset comes into the picture.
I told you that in offset it maintain an array.
Right.
And it has an array like zero, one, two, three.
So whatever the index, whatever the indexing or ordering is.
So indexing ordering is 1245 sequential.
So at index zero it would be it would point to employee ID one data.
So it will point to employee ID one data.
And then after that two.
So index one it will point to employee two data.
Two data.
So third would be four.
So in the next in the sequence of the array would be four.
So now you see that even though the data pages the rows inside the data pages are jumbled or depend
upon how the user might have inserted mixed mode after indexing whatever the sequence comes out.
The order is generally given by the offset.
So whenever the you will traverse this pages, you will traverse in this sequence of this offset.
So employ.
So at zeroth slot it is employ one then two, then four, then 51245.
Like sequencing.
Understood that the use of this offset it holds a pointer.
And that's where cluster indexing is that the order of rows inside the databases match with the order
of the indexing.
So it doesn't mean that this rows are sequencing is changed.
This offset is changed.
This offset array holds the data in this manner so that it maintain the indexing sequencing.
Okay.
So there can be only one clustered index per table.
Why?
Because you can create an order of rows based on one index only.
Right.
So now let's say this is employee.
This is employee ID let's say name.
Can a clustered index can be made on two employee ID and name a c d b.
Let's say index is let's say for this a b c d right.
But in the clustered index the order has to be maintained.
So order can be maintained either through this or through this.
So that's why they're in a DB.
In a one table there can be only one clustered index.
So what column can be a clustered index.
So the it give a prime first priority to the primary key.
So in this table let's say if I have created a employee ID as a is a primary key.
DBMs used is as a clustered key, and whenever it use it as a clustered key, it will sort the data
pages based on that one, whatever the index comes.
So based on this clustered key, it creates a B-tree B+ tree and whatever the B+ tree.
Ultimately the index sequence comes.
The data pages also it will insert in the same manner like not this offset the offset it will maintain
in the same manner.
Right.
So first priority it will go to the primary key.
If manually.
You have not specified any clustered key, then DBMs look for primary key which is unique and not null
and it is used as clustered key.
But let's say your table doesn't have primary key.
Then what?
What will happen?
How DBMs will create a B+ tree out of it.
When you don't have the primary key internally which is not visible to you.
DBMs create a new column and it is generally sequential incremental 1234567.
Right?
With every row you insert.
So it created as a clustered key and stored the data pages based on this.
So any any new row you will insert it will add.
So this is Autoincrement column.
It insert which is not visible to you.
It is used as a cluster key.
So it use that value in a B+ tree to determine which database to pick, where to put, what would be
the offset sequence for that page and all.
Now you can ask that, hey, what if, let's say I have a big table, I have, let's say uh, 1 million
rows.
But I haven't defined the primary key.
There is no primary key.
So what happened would be DBMs internally creates a new Autoincrement column and does the B-tree out
of it and maintains everything it maintains.
Page one, page two, page 1000, data block one, data block two.
Anything.
Whatever the mapping it has been doing, it is doing even the rows ordering.
Also it is doing.
But now you can ask that hey, what if after now I added a primary key and make one column as a primary
key?
So now as soon as you make a primary key, I told you this will get priority.
So now DBMs has to do lot of work.
It has to do regenerate this B+ tree.
It has to update all the pointers now based on this new index column.
It has to update the pointers.
It might have to load so many data pages out of the block.
Reshuffle the rows right.
So lot of work DBMs has to do, but everything has to be changed now based on this column indexing.
Okay, so that's what I did.
If a table there is no primary key then internally it creates a hidden column which is used as a cluster
index.
This column just increases sequentially and guaranteed unique and not null.
So cluster index you already got it right.
It actually.
Based upon this column, which is you can say that the primary key column, the primary key column,
which is always generally considered as a cluster key.
It orders your rows and pages based on that, then you can say that.
Hey, what is non-clustered key?
Okay.
Cluster key.
Take care of primary key.
But you remember we have so many other keys also.
Secondary key.
Composite key.
What about those.
So let's say that I have a scenario where this name can be used a lot to query.
So it is better to put the indexing on it also.
So non-clustered is like I can put indexing or you can say that non-clustered indexing I can put on
this name secondary index.
So on the name also I can put an index.
Let's say I'm putting an index on name also.
But now this name would not be considered as a primary key.
Or it's a secondary key let's say.
So whenever you are creating a secondary key composite key right.
Ultimately it is doing non-clustered indexing.
So what does it means that.
So now let's say I'm doing name.
So based on that B plus three on the name, let's say it is able to maintain certain sequence that this
is A.
This is B.
Let's say this is D.
This is D okay.
This a.
Now.
What.
So now two things.
So it will again this a data is stored in where let's say in page one.
So it will point to the.
Page one.
This B is stored in somewhere.
So.
But here if you see that the ordering of this offsets are not based on this.
First correct the ordering of this I would say that the ordering of the rows does not depend upon the
secondary index.
Second, there can be.
Many secondary index or composite index.
So I can have address also as an index.
So it will create one more B-tree and stores the data and just maintain the pointer to the database.
Right.
So we have only one clustered index.
This clustered index actually drives this ordering of this row.
And we can have many secondary index or the non-clustered index as your name says that clustered you
are not clustering the rows and pages right.
So we can have many non-clustered index or secondary index.
Right.
And that's one of the reason when somebody asks like you should always create index, you can say that
we should not like I have ten columns, let's say column one, column two, column three, column four.
You might be asking that, hey, Shreyansh.
Why can't.
So this is primary key.
Why can't I put this?
This I will also make secondary index.
This is also I will make secondary index.
This is also I will make secondary index over.
Like whatever the query will come it would be faster.
Now you understand at least grasp that there is a overhead.
So for each secondary index you have to maintain a B+ tree for it.
Now if there are 1 million rows in this table, let's say 1 million rows means in a B+ tree.
You are creating so many keys here, right?
You can just consider the amount of memory it also required.
Right?
Let's say if you have three secondary index.
So means you are creating three B+ tree like a non-clustered index one for this secondary index for
this column two.
You might be creating another B+ tree for non-clustered index or indexing.
You might be doing for column three.
For again 1 million record.
Like this.
Now assume that any row.
Particular row is deleted.
You have to update the pointers.
Also of this.
You have to delete that row.
Or because this is the leaf node has the index value.
You have to delete that node also.
And when you delete it you might have it might be possible that you have to update the pointer also.
So that's why it is always say that create an indexing carefully.
Fully.
It is not easy because there is a lot of overhead comes in.
What are the overhead?
First thing is this B plus tree also needs memory.
So you have to worry about the memory also because this is also ultimately going to store in the disk
only right.
And IT DBMs.
Also whatever the data it stored, it also stored into a pages which is known as index pages.
And this index pages are stored in disk only.
So there is a overhead that it maintain the index pages.
So because I told you that 1 million notes it created definitely 1 million note cannot comes into one
page.
It it might have to create so many index pages.
Also index pages also comes into so many uh, let's say block Block five.
Block six, block seven.
So now you see the overhead which DBMs has.
It has to maintain the index pages.
Also index pages mapping.
Also it has to maintain the data page where the data is actually stored.
And it's mapping also blocks.
So just creating a secondary index composite index and indexing will just create an additional overhead.
And any addition any.
Because any time you add a new element you have to update your clustered index, the primary key one,
then all the secondary.
You also have to update and the update.
I already told you page split can happen.
When the page split happen it might divide right.
So index has to be updated.
So I think it's pretty much clear right.
So now you know that what all things has to be done.
So whenever, whenever you have to.
It looks simple, right?
So whenever you have to insert one row new row what all things it does.
Right.
It first find an index page.
Right.
What would be the first step?
It first.
Find the.
Index page right.
So in from the index mapping index page one.
Index page two.
Let's say block one block two.
So it will first load the indexes pages into the memory.
Right.
Because index is pages has your B-tree data combination indexing right.
So second what it will do is uh or you can say that.
So let's say or I would say that instead of inserting, let's say you want to search because we are
talking about search query.
So let's say you want to search a data with 35.
Let's say I'm saying ID.
So first it has to load the index page.
Index page is loaded from this data blocks.
Now from this index pages it will run the B+ tree.
It will traverse this B+ tree to find which data page this 35 has.
So maybe you have a data page.
This index has the data.
So now let's say this 35 ultimately points to a particular data page.
Data page five let's say.
So now from our second step is using the B plus three and find the data page.
Third step use that data page.
Find the.
Data.
Block it.
Maintain a mapping.
Write data page.
Which data block?
That's it.
Two.
So now it can directly goes to that data block.
Load that data block in memory.
Write fifth read the data.
Right.
So now even if there are hundred thousands of data block, it doesn't have to worry.
It can directly goes to that particular data block.
Okay.
So this is check it out one more time.
It would be little bit clear.
But this is so many things happens right in the background.
And we can discuss more if you have doubt in the comment section.
And even if you want it I can have one live session where we can discuss more.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Concurrency Control in Distributed System | Optimistic & Pessimistic Concurrency ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today I am going to cover a very very important interview question which is concurrency control.
So no matter if you are giving a low level design interview or high level design interview, this question
asked in both the interviews, right?
In generally high level design direct question comes explain the distributed concurrency control in
low level design.
Generally you would be solving a question like Bookmyshow parking lot.
And then the follow up question comes how you will handle the concurrency.
Okay, so let's go in depth without wasting any time.
And I hope that this session would be very, very useful for you in your interviews.
Okay.
So let's take I am taking one very simple scenario that many concurrent requests tries to book the same
movie theater seat.
Just assume that this is one seat which three users are trying to book at the same time.
So this is the current state of the seat, which is currently free.
Okay.
And this is let's say the critical section.
So what is critical section a critical section is nothing but a piece of logic right?
In your code base where you are trying to access a shared resource.
Right.
So you are having something, a resource which is common for multiple users.
Right.
So that that piece of logic where you are trying to access that shared resource is generally known as
critical section.
So now let's say this is my critical section.
Now all three requests coming here at the same time.
So what will happen.
So all three will read read seat row with ID ten.
So they will read at the same time.
Let they get free.
So free free free.
So currently this seat is free.
All what they will do is if free.
So all they will go into this part.
They will change it to let's say booked and update the DB.
So what will happen is the seat is straight to booked and all three will get success.
So.
Success.
So what does the problem happen?
Is the same seat has been allocated to all three.
Right.
So this is a very, very basic scenario.
There can be so many other problems which can happen.
But I just wanted to give you a glimpse that what is the problem can come when multiple requests trying
to access one common resource or shared resource.
Right.
So that's where we wanted to handle the concurrency okay.
So generally in your low level design interview what the first thing we say that hey, we will use the
synchronized block.
So on the critical section we will put the synchronize.
So like this is my critical section I will put a synchronize.
You know that synchronized put internally the locking.
So now let's say if three requests are coming.
User one.
User two.
User three.
Try to book right and they reach to this critical section.
So because of this synchronized keyword only one will go.
So let's say first user one will go.
User one will read yes it is free.
So it will change the to booked and write.
And it goes out of this critical section.
Then user two will come.
And when user two will come it say that is a the seat is free.
No, its seat is not free.
It don't.
It won't do anything.
Similarly, after that, user three will come.
It's the same thing.
It won't do anything because it's already booked.
So this will work.
But will this work for the distributed system?
So now assume that when the synchronized logic will work, when it will not work.
So let's say you have a process.
So you know right.
What is the difference between process and thread process and thread.
Right?
So I will not go into depth of the process and thread, but I will just give you a have.
That one process can have multiple threads.
Okay.
So if that is the case synchronize can work.
So if in one process if there are multiple threads right synchronize one can easily take care of.
But what if this in our you know that in distributed system this is uh my service microservice is running
here also machine one.
And in machine two my service is also running.
Right.
So let's say this is my load balancer.
And user one.
User two.
User three is there.
So let's say user one is coming here.
User two request is coming there.
And let's say my services and user three request is coming there.
This is my machine three right.
and all are going in parallel.
All reached to our code critical section together.
Will that synchronized keyword would be able to help us know because this is separate process.
This is separate process.
This is separate process right.
So synchronize cannot help us when in case of distributed system.
Right.
So that is a problem then how it will work.
Then there is something called distributed concurrency control.
We have to use okay.
So start with synchronize.
But remember that this will not solve the problem.
Ultimately we have we want something called distributed concurrency control.
So many times we are using optimistic locking.
Pessimistic locking.
That is wrong right?
I would say that use that as an optimistic concurrency.
Not wrong.
You can say that.
It's just a way of saying that these are optimistic generally as a concurrency control, pessimistic
as a concurrency control.
Right.
So but generally when a usual term, an interview, when we say we just say optimistic locking, pessimistic
locking as also in the day to day work, we also say this.
So it's okay.
But the correct term is optimistic concurrency control and pessimistic concurrency control.
But before we learn this, what is optimistic?
What is pessimistic concurrency control.
Right.
We must know below important things first.
So forget about this now forget about this.
There are.
If you don't know these three things, then we won't be able to understand it properly.
Okay.
So first focus on these three things.
Then we will come back again, and then we will understand what is optimistic and what is pessimistic.
So what is the first we have to understand what is the usage of the transaction.
Very very simple transaction helps to achieve integrity means it helps us to avoid inconsistency in
our database.
How?
Let's take an example.
We have to debit the money from A and credit the money to B.
Okay.
So we have to debit from A credit to B.
Okay.
Let's say this is our DB A has let's say ₹100 B has let's say ₹50.
Okay.
So let's say this is our transaction okay.
So now let's say we wanted to debit the money from a let's say I want to debit ₹20.
So what this will do is debit the money.
So let's say debited the money at ₹20.
And now our DB has ₹80 for a.
Now what we want to do is credit the money to B, which is ₹20.
I need to credit the money to B, but let's say there is some failure happen, some failure happen.
So when any failure happen, what we will do, we will do rollback.
Right?
So now this rollback help us to revert the changes which has happened to the DB as part of this transaction.
Okay.
So now here if you see that this this statement got failed because of certain failure, I couldn't able
credit the money to B.
But this statement, this DB statement got success.
So because of this rollback it will rollback all the success DB statements also.
Right.
And it bring back to its original state what was there at the start of the transaction.
So it will also change it back to 100.
Okay.
So that our DB is in consistent state.
So let's say if you are not using the transaction, if you are not using the transaction and this logic
is not there, you just doing the debit the money from A and credit the money to B, what will happen.
So let's say A has ₹100, B has ₹50.
Debit the money from A.
Okay, I am able to debit the ₹20 from A and now A has ₹80.
Credit the money to B and now let's say certain failure happen and when certain any failure happens,
it won't be able to credit the money to B.
So what is the current amount present at B 50 only.
But now a amount has been debited.
Now this DB is in inconsistent state.
What generally should be the consistent state if both are success?
If both are success, it should be 80 and here 20 should get added 70.
Either this should be the consistent state if all gets success or otherwise.
If it if one of them is failing, it should revert all the changes it has done as a part of this transaction.
So other state consistent state is the like say if any failure happen, it should roll back to the original.
So original was 150.
So these are only the consistent state.
If all success then this should be the state.
If any failure happen what was the original.
Put it back like this.
But if you are not using the transaction, you know that now A has 80 and B has 50 only.
Even though B got failed, A didn't changes, didn't get rolled back.
So now you know that transaction helps to achieve integrity.
If any one transactions get failed in a transaction, it will roll back all the success statements also
so that our DB is now in a consistent state.
Okay.
You understand what is the usage of the transaction.
It helps to achieve integrity.
Second is what is DB locking then?
DB locking helps to make sure that no other transaction update the locked rows.
Okay.
So now let's say you have a DB and you have a one row which is ID and let's say status is free.
If you put a lock here then it makes sure that nobody no, no other transaction or query should be able
to change this.
Right.
So that's what DB locking is.
so popularly.
There are two types of lox shared locks and exclusive LOX.
So exclusive LOX is denoted by X and shared LOX is denoted by S only.
Okay, so what does shared LOX is so shared lock is generally known as read lock.
Let's say assume that this is a row okay.
In a DB this is a row and current status is free.
Something something.
Now if I have taken a shared lock, now I have taken a shared lock.
So what will happen is so transaction one okay.
Let's say transaction one has taken a shared lock.
So now what will happen is if another transaction try to update it, it won't be able to update this
row.
Okay.
But with the help of shared this transaction can also put a shared lock and can read it.
So only in the shared lock only read can happen.
Right.
But you cannot this shared lock restrict any other transaction that you should not update it, right?
But it allows that okay.
You can take the shared locks also and read it.
Okay.
And let's understand what is exclusive lock.
So let's say the same exclusive lock is.
So that is this is one row.
Let's say transaction one has taken an exclusive lock.
So exclusive lock means if any other transaction now cannot even take now, cannot even read it, cannot
even write it right now.
Any transaction apart from T1 cannot even read it cannot even write.
It means cannot even take shared lock for reading or cannot take any exclusive blog for writing.
Okay, so now here, if you see this, these are the two log types.
So let's say shared logs exclusive talk.
Let's say a transaction have shared log.
Then can another shared log can be put.
Yes right.
There can be multiple transaction can put shared logs.
They can all read.
But if you have a shared log can any other transaction put exclusive log for writing?
No.
If you have a if any row has shared logged on it, exclusive log cannot be granted write first, shared
log has to be removed and then only exclusive log can be granted.
So if a transaction has shared log, no other transaction can get ah can take an exclusive log on it.
Let's say transaction have exclusive log.
Can any other transaction put a shared log on it.
No, on exclusive log.
We know that nobody can.
No other transaction can read it.
No other transaction can even write it.
Right.
So for reading they require they want a shared log.
So that is also not allowed for writing.
Other transaction need exclusive log.
That is also not allowed.
Right.
So you got it.
So DB locking has two things.
Shared lock generally for reading purpose, exclusive lock generally for writing purpose, and shared
lock can be put on a row by multiple transactions and they can read it in parallelly, right?
Exclusive lock.
Only one transaction can put no.
And once you put an exclusive lock, no other transaction can request for shared lock and no other transaction
can request for exclusive lock also.
Right?
It can't be granted okay.
So you got it right.
Two type of locking generally we have now.
Very very important we have to understand this isolation level.
So you know that in the asset property of a DB right.
There is something I called isolation right in the video just before this one.
Right.
I have already explained the asset one.
But for the concurrency we have to focus more on isolation because this isolation tells us if how much
level of concurrency is allowed in your application.
Let's understand this.
So what is isolation first?
So in asset property the isolation tells that even if you have multiple transactions running in parallel.
Transaction one.
Transaction two.
Transaction three.
Right.
Each transaction feels like they are working like isolation.
What does isolation means?
Like you are totally isolated alone, right?
So each transaction feels like they are working alone.
Like.
But in general.
Or you can say that in backwards multiple transaction are running in parallel, but each transaction
feels like they are working alone.
They are nobody else.
Right?
So that's what isolation is.
Okay.
So this I property of the asset tells how much concurrency your system can handle.
And it is very, very important to understand and clearly for the distributed concurrency control and
optimistic and pessimistic.
First let's give a very quick glance to this table.
But don't worry but give a very quick glance.
So there are four type of isolation level one.
Read.
Uncommitted.
Second.
Read.
Committed.
Third.
Repeatable.
Read fourth.
Serializable.
So there are four types of isolation level which solves multiple problems.
So these are the problems.
Write dirty read Non-repeatable read and pantham read.
Okay so let's say that so each isolation problem, uh, each isolation level solves a couple of problems
or solve all the problems.
But before even understanding the isolation level, let's first understand what are the problems we
have and how this isolation level solves each one of them, and only what else it can solve.
So first dirty read.
What is dirty read problem?
So dirty read problem is so you know that transaction one right.
And let's say transaction two.
So both transactions are running in parallel.
And let's say this is the DB state ID and let's say status is ID one.
Status is free okay.
So now let's say what dirty read means.
Dirty read means if transaction A if transaction A is reading the data, which is writing by transaction
B and not yet even committed.
So let's say this transaction B, so transaction B has let's say updated updated ID one with status
as booked.
Okay.
Booked But it is not yet committed.
Not committed yet so committed is not yet done.
Okay.
It is reached till here only.
It has updated the DB with book.
But it is not committed.
But before that itself at this time transaction A reads with ID one.
Right?
And what status?
It will read status as booked.
So now if you see that transaction A is reading the data which is writing by transaction B, transaction
B, right.
Let's say booked change from free to book.
So transaction is reading the data which is written by transaction B which is not yet committed.
Right.
So that is the problem of a dirty read.
Because what happen if transaction B there is certain failure happen after this.
After A has read it, get booked now there is certain failure happen in transaction B and it has to
instead of commit, it has to do rollback.
Now it has to rollback.
Now you know that as a part of transaction it will all the success statement.
Also it will revert back.
So it will revert back and change it again to free.
But transaction has read the book.
This is a dirty read now.
So that is how dirty read problem.
So if transaction is reading the data which is writing by transaction B and not yet even committed,
if transaction B does the rollback, then whatever data read by transaction is known as dirty read.
Okay, just the whatever I have explained here, just see this.
With this it might help you uh, more better.
So this is let's say timeline transaction A, transaction B, let's say this is the DB status begin.
Transaction has happened both in parallel.
Transaction A is updating the DB okay.
So it changed the status to booked.
So not committed by transaction A yet not committed by transaction A because transaction is updated
but not yet committed commitment not yet committed.
Right.
So now at time three three transaction B reads read row Id1 right and what it will read the current
DB status is status booked, but this book is currently not committed by transaction A yet.
But whatever the data it read, it gets as a booked.
Now let's say that at time t for some issue faced here by transaction A and it has to do rollback right.
And when it do rollback it removed its changes.
Whatever it did it changed the status booked right from free to book.
So that is reverted.
Now DB is in this state.
But now you see that the transaction B Has already read this dirty read, which is now not even applicable
because this is rollback.
Right.
And did certain computation over top of it.
So now this dirty read causes the problem.
So this is known as dirty read problem.
What is the other problem you understood right.
What is dirty read.
What is the other problem?
Non-repeatable read.
If.
Suppose transaction A reads the same row several times, same row several times, and there is a chance
that it read different value, then it is known as Non-repeatable read.
For example, this is a time series, right?
So at time T one transaction A has started the transaction, begin the transaction.
And this is a DB state right.
And at t two it reads the first time read happening.
So for this ID what it read.
Let's say status as free.
This value as free at time T3.
Certain other transaction change and committed the changes also committed.
It's not uncommitted.
It's committed.
Other transaction has successfully committed.
So means DB has changed and properly data is committed also.
So status is free to book now.
Now in T4 it is reading the row again.
Now it says that it hitting the same query again.
So it get this ID now earlier it was getting for the same row.
It was getting free now in the same transaction.
In the same transaction when the same for the same row, when it read now it's getting booked right
because it is able to read the committed transaction, right?
So in the non-repeatable read any transaction so it is allowed to read the committed data.
You are allowed to read the committed data.
So if data is committed means other transactions can now read it.
So at T3 some other transaction has committed the changes and changed it from free to board.
Now when it is reading again it is getting the book.
So reads the same row several times and there is a chance that it read different value.
So reading the row here, reading the row second times here.
But here it is getting free.
Here it is getting book.
So that is known as Non-repeatable read program.
In the same transaction, if you read the same row multiple times, there is a chance that you get a
different value.
Okay.
What is the third problem?
Pantham reads.
Let's understand that.
What is this problem?
First Pantham reads.
If.
Suppose transaction A executes the same query several times.
Same query several times, and there is a chance that the row returns are different, then it's known
as Pantham.
Let's take an example.
So let's say this is the DB currently with Id1 and ID3 status is free.
Status is booked.
So two rows.
So at time T1I have started the transaction a at time t two.
The first time I am executing the query read row where id greater than zero and id less than five.
So how many rows it will return two rows greater than zero and less than five.
So it will return this two rows.
So I got two rows at T3.
Some other transaction has inserted the row with id two.
This is new.
Now this is new row inserted right?
Now let's say in the same transaction.
If the second time same query is running here, read row with id greater than zero and id less than
five.
How many rows I am getting now three rows I am getting id1, Id2 and ID3.
So what does Phantom read says that if a transaction executes same query several times.
If execute the same query several times and there is a chance that the rows returns are different.
So here they get two rows.
Here they are getting three rows.
That is known as phantom reads.
Phantom reads okay.
So now let's come back to this table again.
Now at least you know that.
What is this Is read.
What is this non-repeatable read problem?
And what is this phantom read problem?
Now let's see this isolation level that how they resolve this.
Which one.
So first isolation level.
So this is zero.
This is one this is two.
This is three.
Generally isolation level zero is read committed isolation level one is read read uncommitted read committed
and two is repeatable read and three is serializable.
Okay.
So let's first understand read uncommitted.
In the read uncommitted what is the locking strategy?
I have already told you the DB locking.
So there are two type of locking.
There are two type of locking.
Shared lock exclusive lock right.
So for this read uncommitted isolation level.
What is locking strategy?
Read no lock is acquired, right?
No lock is acquired.
Right.
No lock is acquired at all.
So what will happen?
What will happen if the no lock is required at all?
So the problem which happen is here is dirty read is also possible.
Non-repeatable read is also possible.
And phantom read is also possible, right?
So let me tell you this one read uncommitted.
So no lock is required.
So let's say transaction one.
Transaction two is coming okay.
So dirty read when.
Let's say this is my DB row A okay.
So this is let's say value certain ten.
Okay.
So now let's say it is updating.
Let's say ten.
It changes to 11.
so it updated the 11.
Now no lock is required.
No lock is acquired.
Now it is reading a so what value it will get.
11 okay so this is dirty read right.
So dirty read is possible.
Non repetitive read is possible.
Yes it is also possible.
Non repetitive means is if it read again let's say read a.
It is possible that some T3 also changed its value from 11 or to 12 let's say.
Then it read again.
It will get some different value earlier it get 11, now it get 12.
So there is no locking, there is no control who is changing what value.
So every time you read you might get different value.
So that is also non repeatable read possible.
Yes it is possible.
Phantom read possible.
Yes it is possible.
If you are running a query with let's say A has value ten and B has value 15.
If you are reading which has value greater than ten or greater than equals to ten and value less than
equals to 15.
So currently you are getting two rows.
But it is possible that another transaction insert a new row within this 11.
And when you read the same query, you will get a new row.
So with read uncommitted all three are possible.
But consistency is very very high.
Consistency is very very high.
But this is very risky.
Generally, read committed is only used in cases where the scenario is only reading.
Only reading.
So use it only read uncommitted only.
Only when you require only read.
No writing.
Otherwise, if writing is allowed dirty read Non-repeatable read.
You can't even proceed further.
You have all three problems in it.
But if you have only read scenarios, then read uncommitted is the one.
Second, isolation level is read committed.
It is better than this, but its concurrency is little bit lower than read uncommitted.
But what it is locking strategy.
Its locking strategy is read shared lock acquired and release as soon as read is done.
So while it is reading the data, it put a shared lock, but as soon as read the data it releases it
also write.
And for write, it put a exclusive lock and exclusive lock acquired and keep till the end of the transaction.
Right.
So read and write.
So for read it put a shared lock and then release as soon as possible.
And for write it put an exclusive lock.
But don't release it only after doing committing like by reaching to the end.
Then only it.
Release it.
Okay.
So read committed solves dirty read problem.
How?
The same.
Let's say transaction one.
Transaction two.
Write.
And that's it.
This is the DB a which has value ten.
Right.
Let's say this is the id a and value ten.
Certain certain row okay.
So now dirty read.
Dirty read means something which is let's say T2 has written.
So T2 want to write transaction to want to write update.
So for update is comes into the category of write.
So what it will do is it put a exclusive lock it, put an exclusive lock here by T2 okay.
And it will acquire the lock and keep it till the end of the transaction.
Till transaction is not completed, it will not release it.
And let's say it update from 10 to 11 okay.
Now let's say transaction one tries to read it read after this, after this it try to read it read a
can it for read a it won't share lock.
So if I told you if exclusive lock is present not even shared lock will be granted.
So it has to wait.
It has to wait.
And if it takes it holds a lock for a long time, it might even get timeout and it has to roll back.
Okay, so you know that now dirty read is not possible.
Why?
Because if it transaction a particular transaction has updated it, it put an exclusive lock and it
will only leave after the transaction and the transaction.
If it is committed, then okay you will read only committed transaction.
That's good.
It's not a dirty read, but if it is aborted or failed, the transaction will get rollback.
So it will read the previous state.
Ten so dirty read is not possible here, but repeatable read problem is there right?
So now because in the read committed means, after that any data which is committed, you can read it
right.
So now let us say the same a 11 transaction one has first read what it got, read a what the value it
got 11 now.
At this period.
This was t one.
Let's say this is the time period.
Time.
Time sequence one.
Time sequence two.
Some other transaction updated because it's see it read a when it read a it put a shared lock.
And I told you that when it put a shared lock and release as soon as read is done.
So it read properly.
So it's also remove the shared lock also.
So now update will do update try to take an exclusive lock.
So if Rho doesn't have any lock even shared it is allowed to take an exclusive lock right?
So it take an exclusive lock and let's say update it to 12 and do commit.
Commit is done and it releases the lock.
Now.
Now it will do read again.
Read a at time three three time sequence T three.
So what value it will read because this has committed Updated to 12.
Some other transaction.
Let's say transaction T2 has done this.
But now what value it will give transaction one.
When it is reading twice it will get 12.
So repetitive read problem is not solved.
Okay.
And similarly Pantham read problem is also not solved because if you have a range then the pantham read
is also possible.
Okay.
But this one is little bit slighter.
Less concurrency than read uncommitted.
The third one is repetitive.
Read repetitive read solves dirty read problem repetitive problem also.
But pantham read problem is still exist, but concurrency is also lower than the read committed.
So how it solves so repetitive read when it is reading the transaction what it do it shared Lock acquired
and release only at the end of the transaction.
Right.
Exclusive lock acquired and release only at the end of the transaction.
So in read.
Committed.
Shared.
Lock acquired and release as soon as possible.
As soon as read is done, but in repeatable read.
Shared lock acquired and released only at the end of the transaction.
And because of this, it is able to solve the repeatable read issue.
How?
Again, same example A has value ten.
This is its id.
This is value this transaction one.
Let's say this is transaction two.
Let's say at time sequence one it reads a right.
So it put a shared lock while reading it put a shared lock.
So it put a shared lock by t one.
Okay, so it read what value it get ten let's say at time t2.
Time sequence T2 transactions two tries to update it.
Update A for updating it won't exclusive lock, but in the repeatable read shared log.
Acquired and released only at the end of the transaction so it has shared lock by T1 will.
Transaction to able to get an exclusive lock here.
No exclusive lock can only be granted when no lock is present on a row.
So it can't get a exclusive row so it update can is not possible.
So if you can't update this nobody can update this.
So even if do read A again at time T3, it will get only ten.
Only because shared lock is there.
Transaction to transaction two can only read it.
It can also put a read a.
It can also put a shared lock by T2.
But operation is not possible because for operation you need an exclusive lock, and for exclusive lock
you should not have any kind of lock present already.
So that's how it solves the repeatable non repeatable issue.
But Bentham read is possible.
And last one is serializable isolation level.
Serializable isolation level is same as repeatable read.
Locking strategy means read put a shared lock and release only at the end of the transaction, right?
Put an exclusive lock and release only at the end of the transaction.
Plus, what it will do is apply a range lock and lock is released at the end of the transaction.
So now one thing is range lock.
So how let's say that you have two rows here.
Let's say a b and let's say it is, uh, this is ID and this is value, let's say now ID one and let's
say three.
So let's say t one.
So now let's say t one says that it read it read the data where ID is greater than equals to one and
ID is less than equals to three.
Let's say this is the query.
So how many rows it got.
Two.
But if it is using serializable isolation level it will put a range lock.
Range lock means it will put a lock on all the rows which satisfy this condition.
So ID greater than equals to one.
Yes.
So it will put a shared lock here.
It will put a shared lock here.
Plus it will also range lock means it will also put the lock on the IDs which are nearby it.
Let's say if it has four, it will also lock this also nearby.
So let's say two two is not there.
So it will lock that also like kind of lock in the sense it will not allow it put a range lock.
So 1234 something between this nothing can be added.
Between this nothing can be added.
So range lock is like now 1 to 4 has been locked in DB.
If you are trying to insert something in mid this range is locked.
This range is locked.
Between this range nothing can be done.
So what it will do is so in the range lock whatever the rows which is satisfying the query, it will
lock that.
Plus it will lock the nearby ranges also.
So it will nearby ranges of one is let's say two zero.
Let's say for example and four is three five.
So it will lock all all all on this.
Now, if anybody try to insert on this IDs and all that is not allowed, that range log is there at
the DB level.
So that is what range is.
So that it try to avoid the pantham reads something in mid cannot be inserted.
Okay.
So you already know this transaction.
Begin transaction and transaction I told you so.
For each transaction before you start the transaction you can set the isolation level like this.
Set transaction isolation level.
Let's say I want to put a repeatable read like this.
If you don't put this right then if you are using a spring and all you use at the rate transaction rate
internally, if you see they will use the default one based upon what DB you are using, right?
Sometimes if you know that I think in MySQL, InnoDB is there, I know db, I think default is this.
Maybe, but depends upon db to db.
What is the default?
But the thing is, if you based upon the question that has been asked to you understand what type of
locking you need, like your question comes in what category if required.
High high consistency and only read is allowed, then no locking is required.
If dirty read is possible, write then read.
Uncommitted is okay.
If dirty read is not allowed, then you have three options.
If non-repeatable read is allowed then this is good or read is allowed.
This is good.
So similarly you have.
Based upon your question, you have to first decide the isolation level.
Your problems comes into this which isolation level.
And for every transaction you can set the isolation level.
If you don't set it automatically, the default will default.
One will be picked based upon the DB.
Okay.
Till now.
Now you have at least these three things better understanding what is the usage of transaction?
What is DB locking?
What are the isolation levels.
Now let's come to the main.
The main answer how to handle the concurrency which is distributed concurrency control.
Optimistic and pessimistic concurrency control.
So optimistic has allows you to have a more concurrency.
And it allows you to use an isolation level below or above repetitive read.
Pessimistic is either repetitive read or serialization, so pessimistic concurrency control is either
repetitive or serializable.
Optimistic control is mostly read committed read.
Uncommitted is mostly just for read applications for writing dirty.
Read is never, never allowed.
So I am saying that for optimistic concurrency, read committed is you can use it or whatever the logic.
I will tell you how the optimistic concurrency control work, but you can use the isolation level read
committed for optimistic concurrency.
For pessimistic concurrency control, we have to use either repeatable read or serializable.
Now let's see.
Now you know that right?
What isolation level this uses.
Now let's see that now you would be able to make more sense that how this work optimistic.
Don't ignore this.
Now I will tell you this after I tell you what the definition is.
Let's say optimistic concurrency control.
Optimistic concurrency control is generally it uses isolation level.
What?
Read.
Committed.
Okay.
So read committed is if something is committed, you are able to read it, right.
And it put a shared lock.
And as soon as it releases it and it will put a exclusive lock, it will keep it till the end.
Now let's see what is optimistic concurrency control.
So now here what it does it it solves a concurrency using version.
So let's see this example.
And uh let's see this with this example I will tell you this.
So there are two transaction transaction a transaction B.
And let's say this is the current DB state.
So ID is status.
And for the optimistic we use version.
So let's say DB like MySQL they already each row each row has version row version inbuilt.
And whenever you do any update that row version increases.
increase, but DB like Oracle they don't have version.
So you can add a column.
And whenever you do any update operation you have to just increment by one.
So now let's start that this is the current DB structure at the first start at time T1 both transaction
started at time t2.
Transaction A reads the id one, so when it reads it put a shared log by transaction A, but it's a
read.
Committed let's say optimistic can use read committed.
It will release the log as soon as it read, so it will release it.
Also after reading it will release it okay.
So what is the row version.
It got one and it reads the data.
Row version was one.
When it's read similarly this also at the same T2 itself it reads again, so it will again put a shared
log, read it and remove it also.
Right.
And let's say both are putting a shared log.
You know that two shared log can be placed.
So they both are able to read it.
And what is the version they read one one.
Now let's say at T3 transaction A is putting a lock select for update right.
So what it does is it will do version validation.
Right now it's trying to update it.
When it's trying to update it it will first check.
So it will first an exclusive lock because now it want to update it.
So it will put a exclusive lock select for update.
Now first it will do is version validation happens.
What is it will check okay.
When I read the data version was one.
Now I want to update it.
Now.
Let's say it has changed something from free to book.
Okay.
Certain logic here it want to update from free to book.
Now it want to update it.
So but before updating it is first checking.
Okay the version in DB after it put an exclusive lock, you know that nobody can either read it, nobody
can even update it.
Okay, so now it will check the version.
Hey, whatever the logic, whatever the update I have done, I have done on version one in DB, also
version is one, is there?
Yes, row version is one.
So validation is success.
It reached to T4 and T4.
It will update and increment the version and change the status to book.
So for this ID status is changed to book.
Version has been incremented by one because it is updating right?
It will increment the version by one.
Exclusive lock is still hold because I told you that exclusive lock will only be released in read committed.
And once it is done, the commit, either commit or either abort, right?
So now once it is updated, now it doing commit one is committed.
Exclusive log is removed.
Exclusive log is removed now.
But what is the version now?
Two status is changed to book now transaction B which has read it at T2.
What version was one?
Now let's say it has certain logic here to also change it to booked it wanted to do a book, but now
it wanted to update.
So now it what it will do is first at T6, it will do select for update.
So now it will put an exclusive lock.
Transaction B has put an exclusive lock now.
Now it will do version validation happen okay.
What is the version in DB version two.
What is the version which I have done?
Version one.
Now it will know that hey, something some other transaction has done the update on this.
Whatever I have read.
So whatever the version I have read of the DB of the row, which was version one.
But now in DB version two means some some other transaction has updated it.
So what it will happen is its validation got failed and it will do rollback right.
So it will try again.
So it will have to try again right.
So it's when it's rollback also it's exclusive log is removed now.
So you see that how optimistic concurrency control works it control through this versioning right.
And before updating they first do validation right.
So this is the flow.
So transaction is created.
You read the row right.
No Locking is.
As soon as you read it, unlocking is required.
So multiple transaction can read at the possible at the same time.
Computation on the fetch row may be whatever the columns you wanted to update.
You make the changes and all, but now you want to update it.
So now first you do a validation.
If row is modified, version is same.
If row is modified, no version is same.
So when I read it version was one and now also it is one.
So it will update the DB and do the commit okay so row modified.
So here it will take an exclusive lock.
Okay.
But if row is modified here version one it read but the row version was two.
So row modified.
Yes.
So what it will do is it will do rollback and it will start again.
Okay.
So you got it.
Optimistic concurrency control what isolation level it uses, read committed and how it works is through
version and comparison.
Mostly you will see that in companies where you know that are there on a single resource, like it's
a very less chance that concurrency sudden comes, then this is generally the best part, right?
It provide a high level of concurrency.
Now another is pessimistic.
Pessimistic.
You know that what isolation level it uses either repeatable or serializable.
Repeatable or serializable.
Okay.
So here it is simple.
It will don't release a lock itself.
Okay.
So now here if take this example transaction one.
Transaction two.
Right.
Okay.
So now let's say it reads read a.
Okay so here we have a DB which has let's say ID status.
Okay.
And ID is let's say a for example status is free.
So it read a.
So what it will put is shared log.
Same I told you right.
The same example.
So pessimistic locking is similar.
Now if you have put a shared lock it will not even release it.
So this is begin transaction.
Now other transaction can read it.
Read a possible so shared lock by T1 and shared log is also by T2.
It's possible right.
Now what will happen is uh.
So shared lock is done.
Right.
So this is possible.
Now let's say if it tries to update B certain row is there in B.
It will put an exclusive law.
An exclusive lock is kept till the end.
Either commit or abort.
Right.
So on a it can read it and only at the end it will be released.
Right.
And if it wants to update happening on B also it can't do it.
Exclusive lock is present right.
So now you see that pessimistic is something kind of brings little bit kind of serialization.
Serialization means okay first t one girl get able to complete.
Then T two will get able to complete right.
Doesn't matter.
Like who start first and all.
It's just like either T2 or T1 or t1 or T2.
So generally what I mean to say is that you will see certain sequence, right?
Because of this locking for the whole period because when it read a, it put a shared lock.
Now no other transaction can update it.
If they want to update it, they have to wait for the T1 to complete.
So that transaction can only start after it, right?
Similarly, if it has updated or put a lock on any resource for updating it, again, it put an exclusive
lock.
Now nobody can even read it.
Also, they all have to wait it.
Because of this, there is one big problem in pessimistic case of deadlock.
Let's say this use case transaction one wants to read A, and so read A, write B and similarly it want
to read B.
Write a.
Let's say this is the use case.
Okay, so what is the deadlock use case in pessimistic how this will work.
Let's say this is my A.
This is my b row db row.
So T1 at time sequence one both started parallelly.
Read a.
So read a.
What it will do is put a shared lock by T1.
Okay transaction started begin transaction.
Similarly transaction started and it will do read B at time sequence one.
It read B so it put a shared lock by T2 okay.
Now transaction is not yet finished.
So these locks are not released.
Now it want to write B at time sequence, let's say two and it want to write.
It want to write a at this time sequence.
Now will it be able to write B now.
No because shared lock is already there.
So it has to wait.
Waiting for transaction two to release.
Shared lock on B.
Similarly, transaction two wants to put a write lock exclusive lock on A and A has been a already has
a shared lock by T1.
So this will waiting for T1 to release shared lock on a.
now they both are waiting.
So they both they both won't be able to complete its transaction.
So now they both are waiting on each other.
So that's what deadlock happens.
Now what will happen in this use case is whatever the transactions which are stucked in deadlock, they
both will get aborted and they might have to start again.
They have to release all their logs and the transaction will be aborted after a particular time.
Right.
So they will wait for all.
And if they are, keep on waiting and they identify that deadlock, transaction or release all the locks
and abort it.
So pessimistic locking, pessimistic concurrency control has the deadlock issue.
But there is no deadlock problem in optimistic how?
Just see the same example again.
But with an optimistic locking you will see the difference and it would be much better.
Uh.
This thing.
Read a, write b, read B, write a.
So let's say transaction one.
Transaction two, uh, let's say this is DB.
It has A and B.
So in optimistic it use read committed.
So it will read A.
So it will read a happens transaction started at uh time sequence one.
It will put a shared lock and also release it as soon as read happen.
So no lock is present.
And also in parallelly it will read B.
So again it put a shared lock and read it.
So no lock is also present because after reading it releases the shared lock at time sequence two.
It wants to write B, so write B it wants an exclusive lock.
B doesn't have any exclusive lock, so it will put exclusive lock by T one T1 and it will put right.
A so A doesn't have any lock so it will put exclusive lock by T2 both able to complete it.
Commit commit.
So they will release their transaction.
So if you see that with optimistic there is no problem of deadlock.
With with pessimistic there is a problem for deadlock.
So now let's come to this.
There are certain properties like isolation level used for.
Below is repeatable read below.
Repeatable read means.
What is the below one.
Read committed.
Read uncommitted is only used for read application.
For write application read uncommitted is not feasible at all.
So for optimistic concurrency control what is the isolation level is below repeatable read so means
it has much higher concurrency than pessimistic.
There is no chance of deadlock, right?
And in case of Solve conflict.
Let's say I told you that versioning part right.
This is the conflict part in optimistic.
I told you that that the transition to it got that a version validation failed.
So it has to roll back and try again.
So that is one of the overhead in pessimistic control.
Isolation level is repeatable read and serializable.
So it has less concurrency compared to optimistic.
Deadlock is possible right.
And the transaction which are stuck in deadlock are forced to roll back.
And sometimes what happens is if it is a long running transaction transaction, you know that in repeatable
read and serializable, if even read lock is taken, it is kept till long.
And even if so, if it's a long running transaction, you are putting a shared lock for the long time.
And sometime it is happened that for this long, uh, log duration timeout can also happen.
And rollback can also happen because of those.
Right.
So just depend upon the configuration.
But this is one of the other use case.
So this is what optimistic and pessimistic concurrency control.
And so I think today's I think video I haven't seen the time.
It might be I think oh crossed 40 minutes also.
But the the very popular pessimistic control one protocol is two PL two phase locking.
Okay.
So I can explain you maybe in the next session.
But two phase locking is something which is again very popular.
But this is a pessimistic concurrency control.
Right.
So see now in your questions whenever somebody says that always use optimistic.
No it depends.
So see optimistic concurrency control is very popular in pessimistic Control.
Concurrency control two phase locking is also popularly used also.
It is a two phase locking is nothing but a approach for pessimistic concurrency control.
I will explain you two phase locking in the next session in depth.
Uh, but what I want to tell you that never have a opinion that optimistic is always a best.
So now, based upon the problem which you are solving, first check what isolation level you might have
to use based upon the isolation level.
Your half of the problem will resolve whether you have to use optimistic or pessimistic, right?
And if it is optimistic, you know how to solve it.
If it is a pessimistic, you know how to solve it.
And one of the approach for implementing pessimistic is two phase locking, which I will tell you in
the next session.
Okay, guys, uh, sorry for this long session, but I hope you will, uh, learned a lot about the
distributed concurrency control and see you in the next sessions.
Uh, and any doubt, please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Two Phase Locking (2PL) ---

Uh, today I am going to cover the two phase locking in the Hld series.
And before this video, you should watch this distributed concurrency video first in this series, right?
Because in that video I have covered what is optimistic locking and pessimistic locking in depth.
And two phase locking is nothing but a type of pessimistic locking.
Two phase locking is widely used in a company, so yes, do check out this video if you don't know what
is optimistic and pessimistic.
Locking itself just previous video itself in the series, you will find it.
Okay, so let's start with the two phase locking.
So as the name says that two phase.
So it has phase one and phase two okay.
So in the phase one generally known as the growing phase.
And phase two is known as the shrinking phase.
So like this understand that with this diagram that what is growing face and what is shrinking face?
So in the phase one, in the growing phase, what transaction can do is transaction can acquire the
locks.
Right.
So transaction can only acquire the locks.
The amount of number of locks with the time can only increase in the growing phase.
It cannot release in the growing phase.
It can only acquire more and more locks to perform a transaction after a time.
After a time, it move into the second phase, which is known as shrinking phase.
In the shrinking phase, now only transaction can release the locks it cannot acquire.
Now no more new locks, only it can release.
That's why it is two phase.
Phase one is the transaction request for the lock by the lock manager.
Okay.
So transaction can only request for the new locks.
The lock manager either Grant or denied.
The lock denied in case if lock is already held by some other transaction.
Okay, so in the growing phase, transaction can only request new lock, but in the shrinking phase,
transaction cannot acquire any new locks.
Transaction is only allowed to release the lock.
Only allowed to release the lock which is taken previously.
Okay, so now you understand these two phases right?
So in the basic so there are three types of two phase locking.
One is basic, another is conservative.
And another is strict.
You can say that strong strict two phase locking which is also known as rigorous locking.
We will cover all three.
So in the industry mostly rigorous locking is used.
Strong, strict two phase locking.
Okay, but we will understand all this three.
So first before we understand that.
So you now you know that what are the two phases.
Why it's called two phase locking.
So no matter what type you are learning basic two phase locking conservative or strong strict it has
to follow this two phase.
It will have one growing phase.
In the growing phase, only locks can be acquired.
Then it will have shrinking phase.
In the shrinking phase, only previously acquired locks can be released.
No new lock can be acquired.
Okay, so now with that understanding, let's check what is basic two phase locking.
So see this basic two phase locking.
So let's say this is transaction one.
This is transaction two.
And this is the time how it's time grows right.
So at time zero I have begins the transaction of T1 transaction one.
So you already know if you have seen the previous video, you already know that.
What is the meaning of X and what is the meaning of S?
So x means exclusive locks right?
It's a exclusive lock and this is shared lock okay.
So there are two type of lock exclusive lock and shared lock.
So.
In the T1I have put an exclusive lock on data A let's say at time T2I have put exclusive lock on data
B.
So if you consider this as a graph.
So currently for the time transaction one t transaction one, currently it's in growing phase because
I am keep on putting a lock.
So I have put first x, then I have put another lock on B.
So I am just keep on taking the locks.
Then I will perform some work.
Okay, now after that as soon as I start unlocking the one, even the one unlock I have done means I
have now moved to the shrinking phase.
I cannot acquire any more locks.
So now at time T4 at time T4 it unlock a.
So now let's say it unlock a and then at time T5 it do unlock B.
Okay.
And after that it commit the transaction.
It finished the transaction.
So now here if you see that this is your shrinking phase, and in this phase you will not see any new
locks to be acquired.
This is growing phase.
All the locks which it wanted, it has taken.
Now it is doing some processing.
And after that it moved to the shrinking phase.
Okay, so always the graph would be like this locks acquired and then locks released two phase.
But there would not be like this lock acquired lock release then lock acquired then lock release.
No.
So it will always be like phase one.
Phase two, growing phase, shrinking phase.
That's all.
This is not tuple okay.
Similarly transaction two if you see that okay.
So transaction one we have seen that it's growing phase and shrinking phase.
But now let's see that at T four the transaction two when it first unlock a transaction two begins the
transaction and it put an exclusive lock on.
Be right it.
So here, if you see that I have unlocked the be also.
So the lock on a lock on be has been released.
Now it has taken a lock on be lock on a and then commit.
Okay.
So here if you see that one thing I have not explicitly do done the unlock.
So sometime you have taken a lock a lock be log A log B.
And after that instead of unlocking you just did commit.
So when you did the commit.
Commit will also like an end of a transaction.
And when it is an end of a transaction means it will release the lock itself.
It will directly release the lock.
All the locks which has it will release.
So that is also a two phase locking like it's a growing phase.
But as soon as the end of the transaction reached it, release all the locks.
So there are two two ways which I showed you like it can even before even completion of the transaction.
Right?
It can release the lock in the two phase locking, or it can even at the end, it can just keep on taking.
And at the end when you do commit, it can release the lock at that time also.
Okay.
So this is known as basic two phase locking.
Basic two phase locking.
You got it.
You can release the lock even before committing of the or before ending of the transaction.
You can release the lock okay.
But there are two very big issues which are present in the basic two phase locking okay.
Understand this very carefully because this is very frequently asked that which type of two phase locking
you will use.
Okay.
The problem with basic two phase locking is first is deadlock.
Understand this with example.
So this is again a time.
So now let's say at time zero.
So I have two transaction A and B are let's say two data.
A and B okay.
So transaction one started at t0 at t0 transaction two also started okay.
Both started in parallel at T1.
Transaction one has taken a lock on this one.
So transaction one has put lock here.
So this is locked by transaction one.
And at the same time T1.
This has been locked by T2 transaction two.
Transaction two has put a lock here on the row B.
Okay.
So this is lock.
Now at t two time two transaction one wants to put a lock here.
Wants to put a lock here.
So now if you see that it is following the two phase because it is growing phase so it can acquire more
lock.
Now it is waiting for lock to be released by the transaction.
Two because it want to acquire a lock on B, but B is locked by which transaction the transaction two.
So it will waiting.
So it will waiting for this.
Right.
It is waiting for transaction two to release the lock and transaction two want to put a lock on transaction
A and transaction A is who put the lock.
Transaction one has already put the lock so it is waiting for transaction one.
So both are now waiting for each other, and both will not be able to complete their growing phase itself.
So they now they are in a deadlock condition.
Okay.
So this is just one example, one use case.
There could be another use case.
See here.
This could be another use case of a deadlock.
This is one use case and this is another use case.
So here we have two a and b.
So let's say even we have only one data in a db.
Let's say only one.
Then also deadlock can come how at time zero transaction one and transaction two both started T1.
Transaction one has put a shared lock.
You know already right.
Shared lock.
Shared log means you can read it, but you cannot write it right in the shared log.
More than one transaction can read it simultaneously.
Right.
But until and unless nobody can either write to it for writing, you have to convert it to exclusive
log, right?
And there should not be any other log.
So now here, if you see that at time T1 it has put a shared lock on it.
So T1 has put shared lock.
Similarly at time T1 transaction two has also put a shared lock.
So transaction two has also put a shared lock.
So you already know that more than one transaction can put a shared lock.
Shared lock is for read.
So they can read this data okay.
But they can't write it.
Now transaction at time T2 transaction says that transaction one says that hey I want to update the
data.
So I want so for updating or for writing what log it required exclusive log.
So it want to do conversion of the shared log to exclusive log.
But will it be able to convert it to exclusive log.
No.
Because some other transaction has already put a shared lock until and unless some other transaction
doesn't release the shared lock, it can't take the exclusive lock.
So now it sent a request that hey, I want an exclusive lock on a.
So lock conversion only happen if transaction two read Lock is released, but it will wait now because
it want to put exclusive lock on a.
So it will wait.
Wait for whom?
Wait for transaction two to release its shared lock, but the same time transaction two also want to
upgrade to exclusive lock will transaction to able to upgrade to exclusive log by transaction?
No.
Because why?
Because transaction one has shared log.
So both transaction one and transaction two will not release their shared log.
And they will wait for each other just to release because they both wanted to upgrade or convert their
shared log to exclusive log.
So this is also a deadlock condition.
Both will wait even on the one data also present.
Right.
So this problem happens in the basic tuple right.
So now what are the prevention strategies for it.
How to prevent it.
So first prevention strategy is timeout.
In this strategy scheduler finds out that transaction is waiting for too long for the lock okay.
It simply assumes that there might be a deadlock involve this transaction and thus abort it.
So what happens is, let's say if T1 is waiting for too long for waiting, T1 is waiting for a lock
and it's wait for long, very long time.
So there is a scheduler which keeps track of like which transaction is waiting, which transaction is
currently executing.
So it will determine that, okay, a particular transaction is waiting too long for the lock means it
is a chance that there might be a deadlock.
And what it will do is it will just abort it.
But this has a disadvantage to what if this transaction, one which wanted a lock which is already acquired
by T2, right.
This is a lock which is already acquired by T2.
And let's say there is no deadlock.
T2 is just taking too much time for completion And everything is working fine.
Does T2 is taking too much time for completion?
But there is no deadlock.
But even after the timeout happens, scheduler says that hey, you are waiting too long.
I think you might be in the deadlock so it will abort it even though there is no deadlock, right?
So that's why it says that scheduler sometime can make mistake, right?
It is possible that transaction one wait for the log which is acquired by other transaction, which
is taking just long time to finish.
Okay.
So timeout might cause a problem.
Also it might abort some valid transaction which is not even a deadlock.
So this is not a correct way.
Then there is some better option is usage of wait for graph wfg.
Right.
It is.
It is a direct graph.
So what happen is scheduler create this graph.
Whenever there will be an edge, there will be an edge from node transaction one to transaction two,
TI to TJ.
If transaction one is waiting for transaction two to release some lock.
So now let's say this is TI I or t1 simplification.
Let's say t1 is waiting for T2 to release some lock.
So that's why there is an edge.
Hey T1 is waiting for T2 transaction two to release a lock.
Okay, so scheduler will keep on creating this.
Wait for graph and periodically periodically it will check for the cycle.
Whenever in this directed graph a cycle is formed means there is a deadlock.
So also.
scheduler deletes the edge whenever lock is released by a particular transaction, which causes some
other transaction to wait.
So now let's say T2 has released some lock, which is T1 is waiting for it.
So in that case graph this edge will be removed.
Okay.
So understand this.
Wait for the wait for graph right.
Let's say here t1 is waiting for T2 to release some log.
T2 is waiting for T3 to release some log T3 is waiting for T4 to release some log.
Then similarly T4 is waiting for T5 and T5 again waiting for T1.
So this cycle is a example of deadlock.
Now scheduler will periodically check this wfg and try to see hey, if there is any cycle exist.
If there is any cycle exist there could be a cycle from here.
There could be so many cycles.
So it try to see that, hey, if there are any cycle exist or not, if there is any cycle exist means
that those transactions are stuck in a deadlock.
When the deadlock is identified, what will do transaction is chosen from the cycle in wfg.
Wait for graph that need to be aborted.
Now in this cycle, some transaction has to be aborted to make sure that this cycle get resolved.
Right cycle get break.
So whatever the transaction has to be picked, they are known as victim.
And how scheduler decide which transaction how and how scheduler choose the victim.
You can say that okay.
So it just can't blindly pick that okay.
You get aborted, you get aborted, you get aborted.
Okay.
So there are certain algorithms with scheduler has it takes care of lot of things before deciding which
transaction should be aborted.
So four things it choose the amount of effort transaction has already put till now.
If a transaction has done too much time already right then it should be.
It should not be aborted, right?
So that one way check the amount of effort required to finish the transaction.
Another criteria is chosen is like hey, how much time transaction now need to just finish this transaction.
So the one who required very, uh, has a chance that it will finish soon.
Why?
To abort it also.
That could be another condition.
The cost of aborting the transaction.
You know that whenever we abort the transaction, we have to roll back the changes in the DB.
So cost generally means how many updates already has been done, because that has to be rolled back
now to the previous state we have to bring in.
So that cost also need to be analyzed and the number of cycles that contains the transaction.
Let's say T3, there is another cycle also present that let's say t seven, t eight.
And that's waiting for him.
That's another cycle.
So it is also another thing like if this is present in so many other cycles, then this could be a chance
that we can pick this as a victim.
Okay.
So there are different ways a scheduler things that which transaction to pick as a victim.
What is the another way to remove the deadlock.
Another way to remove the deadlock is conservative tuple.
This is not very frequently used because it cause like I'll tell you its disadvantage because this is
a very less concurrency.
So here but how it resolve the deadlock.
So what it does it it is also known as static two phase locking.
It avoid the deadlock by requiring each transaction to acquire all the locks at the start of the transaction
itself.
So what happens is so when you start a transaction, you have like okay read a, then you can write
on B, then there you can have multiple read write read write and all.
You will submit those to scheduler.
Now scheduler will try to pick the lock at the start itself before even you start executing the actual
transaction.
Operation scheduler will try to grant you the locks on all the data which you are about to work in this
transaction.
So avoid deadlock by requiring each transaction to acquire all the locks at the start of the transaction
itself.
Okay, so what do schedulers try to set all the locks needed by the transaction?
If the scheduler fails to acquire any lock, none of the lock will be granted to the transaction.
It will wait.
So let's say it won't lock on A, B, and C scheduler is able to take a lock on A or lock on B, but
C has already somebody has acquired it.
So even so in the conservative tuple that this two locks will also be not be required, the transaction
will wait.
It will wait till all three are not get allotted to transaction.
So understand from this graph.
So during the start itself.
During the start itself, all the locks are acquired.
Whatever you need.
Then you perform your operation right?
And after you have completed your operation, and once you start releasing it now, you can't acquire
anymore.
You just have to release it as soon as you complete your work.
Just release.
Release.
So release after release, then release.
So it's a shrinking phase.
Okay, so deadlock will never gonna happen because whenever any transaction is started means it has
all the data which it wants.
All the locks already present.
So it doesn't has to wait for anybody any other transaction.
So deadlock cannot happen.
But one of the disadvantage is it less concurrency is the disadvantage of it.
Right.
And there is an extra overhead for the scheduler to know like in advance.
This transaction required all this read and write operation.
So this is extra overhead or extra task for scheduler to come in, right?
But the biggest disadvantage is less concurrency.
And that's why conservative tuple is mostly not used.
Okay.
So there is another the fourth way to identify the deadlock right.
So this is is like timestamp based deadlock detection.
So older timestamp means higher priority of the transaction.
So like t0 t1.
So let's say this is uh time timestamp.
Let's say 1234.
So as the time grows timestamp grows also.
So it would be let's say uh 1987 right.
So the older the transaction means lower the timestamp the newer or the latest.
The transaction which started late means higher the Timestamp.
So what?
It says that older timestamp of a transaction means higher priority.
Higher priority.
Okay, so now the timestamp based deadlock detection uses this two logic wait and die or wound wait.
So what it does is in the wait and die.
Just see that here all transaction wait for the new transaction.
Okay, so let's say if any new transaction has already acquired the lock, the old transaction will
wait for it.
Okay.
Will wait for it.
For example here in this case let's say time one time transaction one.
Transaction two.
So it began earlier.
So this is old transaction T1 and higher priority.
T2 start little late.
So this is let's say that new transaction right.
Right.
So now here, if you see that T2 has already put the lock and now T1 wanted the lock.
So here in the wait and die all transaction wait for the new transaction.
So in the wait and T1 will wait right.
And in the wound wait what happen is wound.
So wound means just say the name that old give wound to the new transaction and make them abort.
So in this case now T1 want lock on a which is already acquired by the new transaction.
Since T1 is old transaction, it has higher precedence.
So it will give a wound to the new transaction.
So T2 will get aborted.
That's what the name wound.
weight.
Right.
So all transaction give wound to the new transaction so it won't weight.
Okay.
Just it will just about the new transaction and taken the lock.
But in the weight.
Old transaction weight for the new one.
Okay.
So why this way also we can resolve the deadlock also.
So just another example that let's say in this old.
So this is old.
It has already acquired the lock.
This is new which is start late and wanted a lock so wanted a lock on this.
So now old already has the lock right.
So now what it will happen is this says that wait and die.
Wait old transaction wait for the new.
But new transaction should not wait for the old.
It would die.
So now will here in the wait.
And this new transaction wait for the old.
No.
know in the weight and time T two will abort because here only old will wait, not new.
Similarly wound wait old will give the wound to the new.
But when the new wanted it will wait.
So here in the T two will wait.
Got it.
So generally this is the first big issue with the deadlock in the basic two phase locking.
But there are different ways of avoiding the deadlock also.
Now what is the second issue.
The second issue is.
The cascading aborts.
Very big problem.
Which generally that's why we avoid usage of basic two phase locking.
Right.
So here if you see that consider this example.
What is cascading abort.
So transaction one is started.
So let's say this is a this is B okay.
Let's say a value has ten B value is also let's say five.
For example transaction one started.
Transaction two started.
Transaction one has taken a lock on a.
So who has taken a lock T one has put a lock, then it's growing phase is started.
It also put a lock on x.
This it t one also has put a lock on B.
So it's growing phase.
This is its growing phase.
Now it updates the value of A.
Now let's say it changed its value to 11 okay.
Now it releases this lock.
Now it's shrinking phase is started.
So now it releases the lock on a.
So now lock on A is released.
Now as soon as the lock has been released.
But here if you see the transaction is not completed yet.
As soon as the transaction release the lock, transaction two has taken the lock on a.
So now T2 has taken a lock on A and read the operation.
Let's say it do some operation on a value.
Maybe it read it.
So what value it read it 11.
Now what happened is if T2 start working on the value of a which is 11.
And now let's say t1 got aborted.
When T1 get aborted, what happens generally is that we have to roll back.
We have to roll back.
So earlier it was ten right.
So it has to be rollback to ten again.
But here if you see that T2 has already done the reading which is now known as dirty read, I have already
explained in the previous video this is known as dirty read.
So there is a problem.
All dirty read and T2 has to be aborted because of that.
Also because this 11 value is not a valid one now, right?
So this has to be aborted too, as it read the dirty value of A that is known as cascading abort because
it put a lock, change the value, unlock it.
But the transaction is not yet completed and before it is not even completed, somebody has also read
it, and once somebody has read it and performs a certain operation and if this get abort, then this
transaction has to be aborted too, because whatever the value, it has returned to a that is not a
valid now.
So you can't perform on a dirty value.
So transaction two has to be aborted too.
So that is known as cascading abort.
Okay.
So how to avoid this cascading abort.
So to avoid this cascading abort there is one more technique or approach is called strong strict two
phase locking which is also known as rigorous two phase locking.
So in the two phase locking, if you see the graph graph, you will see that it has a growing phase
where you can gradually acquire the locks.
But once you acquire the lock right, you cannot release it.
Like gradually you have to hold the lock until the end of the transaction.
At the end of the transaction, either abort or commit.
Then only all the locks will be released.
So whether it's a exclusive lock or shared lock, it would be released only at the end.
So in the growing phase, you can grow slowly, but release.
You have to be done only at the end.
So it has two problems.
One is concurrency.
Yeah, it would be less concurrency.
compared to the basic one.
And another problem is deadlock.
Deadlock is still possible, right?
In the conservative one, deadlock is not possible, but cascading abort is possible.
But in the strong strict two phase locking, cascading abort is resolved.
But deadlock is possible.
And generally this is widely used rather than conservative because cascading abort is generally not.
You can say that it's very expensive, right?
And deadlock.
Generally we use wfg to prevent the deadlock.
Okay.
So these are the different types of like basic basic has both the deadlock cascading abort.
Then there is uh your conservative two phase locking which avoids the deadlock.
But cascading abort is there.
Then we have strong strict two phase locking rigorous two phase locking which of which take care of
cascading about but has the deadlock.
Okay.
And there are different ways to resolve the deadlock.
That's why I've told all the four approaches.
So generally.
Wfg is widely used in the two phase locking.
So just now see an example of all.
So here if you see that.
At transaction one want to send the ₹10 from A to B transaction two sum of a plus B.
It has to do.
And let's say this is the initial balance.
So now let's take an example of basic two phase locking.
What else.
So we know that deadlock can come cascading abort can come.
It happens.
But what else.
Now let's see that.
So begin the transaction.
It put an lock.
So it has a B.
It has ten or what value.
It has 100 100 100 100.
So at t one T1 transition has taken a lock.
Now it has changed it to.
90.
Updated the A value.
Now it has released the lock.
A lock has been released.
Value changed to 90 now at T5.
T2 has taken a shared lock.
So it has.
T2 has taken a shared lock.
Read the value which is 90.
It has released the lock on a.
It has released the lock.
Now at T8 it put a lock on be shared lock on be.
So T2 has put a shared lock on be read the value of be which is 100.
So it will do plus 100 unlock the be.
Release the lock.
It commits.
And also what happened is uh XB.
So now transaction one has put a lock because it has to do.
Transfer the money right from A to B, so a ₹10 has been deducted.
Now on B, ₹10 has to be added.
So it has put an exclusive lock on B transaction one.
It added the value 100 plus ten so it will become 110.
Updated the B value, unlock it, remove the lock and commit it.
So now here if you see that what value transaction B has read 90 plus 101 90.
But generally it should be 200 only 90 plus 110 generally.
So this also issue can also comes like this.
Even though there is no cascading abort happen even though there is no deadlock happen.
But here if you see that this issue can also come.
So now understand with the conservative tuple cascading about issue present, we know that.
But let's see that with one.
So in the cascading uh conservative it will take all the lock start itself.
So it will put both the lock here.
Right.
And what it will do, it will change it to let's say a, a value has changed it to 90.
It will perform its operation on the B also it will change it to 110.
Right.
And after that now it reached to the shrinking phase.
In shrinking phase it can go one by one like okay, gradually.
So it unlock the a so earlier it has the lock on both.
Now it is unlock it.
As soon as it unlock it it has taken it.
Transaction two has taken it.
Okay.
So now transaction two also wanted the lock on B but B is already taken by the transaction one.
So transaction two is still waiting.
So no locks is granted to it yet.
Now at T10 transaction one unlock the B also.
And now here if you see that B and A both will be success.
So now transaction two has taken the lock on both.
It will read the value of a and B.
So it will do A plus B which is 200 and then put Unlock shrinking face okay.
So here if you see that no cascading of what happened right.
But actually the values it read it properly.
But cascading issue can happen.
I have already told you right.
But I just wanted to show you that it's growing face initially itself.
It put all the locks logs and then in shrinking, it can do gradually, it can unlock it.
Somebody can start or it might can also do some work and then unlock another.
Similarly, in the strong strict two phase spell, it can do gradually.
Right.
So deadlock can happen.
We know that.
But still.
Wait.
I wanted to show you that it put a lock on a transaction one.
Now the lock can be put gradually.
It's not like all the lock you need at the start.
So it put a lock on a it updated its value to 90, update a value.
But see that lock is not released till the end.
XB it put a lock here, change its values to 110.
So transaction two is waiting for the A itself.
So it is waiting.
So now when the transaction will release the lock.
After commit itself, when it do commit, this lock will get released and then it will get transaction
to will get the lock on this one.
And then it will read the value of it and do commit.
And during the commit it will release.
So you got it right.
The in the strong strict two phase which is a rigorous the lock which they acquire keep it till the
end in conservative lock can be released kind of a gradually.
They don't have to keep it till the end, but they will take all the lock start itself.
Okay I hope this is pessimistic.
Are locking type two phase locking.
You have cleared what are different type issues right.
And what are the different ways to resolve those issues?
Okay.
Any question, any doubt please feel free to ping in the comment section.
Thank you.

--- OAuth 2.0 expalined ---

Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do OAuth 2.0.
Okay.
So let's start it without wasting any time OAuth stands for open authorization.
So it's an authorization framework.
It enables secure third party access to user protected data.
Now let's understand this two points with this flow.
So this is user.
Let's say this user is already signed in to his Gmail account.
This is his Gmail account.
And user is already logged in right.
User is already logged in.
So this is it has it's protected data.
So this user it has its complete profile right.
It's set up all there into the Gmail account.
Now it want to log in to any other Website.
Let's say that certain x, y, z website it want to log in here.
It want to log in here.
So you might be seeing that there.
We do get an option that right sign in using Gmail you get different options.
So now let's say if user use this sign in using Gmail what it is trying to do is it is authorizing this
third party.
So XYZ website is a third party, right.
And it is authorizing this third party.
Hey, you go ahead, use my protected data from the Gmail.
I am authenticating you.
Right.
So Gmail will provide the information which is required to this third party.
And after that you would be able to log in to this XYZ website.
And you will see that.
You will see that.
Hey.
Welcome user.
So it automatically get your username and everything from the Gmail.
So there are four important roles.
Or you can say that actors involved in it.
This process in this process four actors involved.
First one is resource owner.
Who is this resource owner in this flow?
This guy is the resource owner.
So now let's say that I am the person who has this Gmail account Shreyansh.
I am already signed in over here.
And this guy is me.
Shreyansh.
So who is the resource owner here?
This this me Shreyansh is the resource owner.
Then second one is client.
Who is the client?
The client is one which initiate the request.
So in this case, let's say I want to I want to access Facebook.
And here I am clicking that sign in using Gmail.
So now in this case Gmail.
Facebook is the one which wanted my protected data, right?
So who is the client here?
This third one is Authorization server.
So now let's say that Gmail.
So there would be another you can say that Gmail authorization server.
So generally sometimes you will see that even in Gmail itself one one service itself taking two roles.
It is also doing authorization uh part also and also the resource like it hosts the resources.
Right.
So but for simplification and in most of the cases generally these are two different components.
Right.
So there would be one Gmail authorization server, which takes care of authorizing.
Right.
So this is the third component.
And the fourth is resource hosting server.
So I am the resource owner.
And where is my all the resource present currently in the Gmail.
In Gmail knows about me everything.
My date of birth, my name, my email ID right, all my data is present into Gmail, right?
And Gmail is hosting it.
So this is the hosting server.
My resource are present into Gmail and this is the server which is hosting my protected data.
So here in this case Gmail is your resource hosting server.
So you got this four resources.
You have to be very clear because we are going to see the flow using this only.
So now these are the four actors involved in it.
And we will see a flow using this for actors now.
But before starting the flow, I will tell you there are five mechanism to get the token.
Or you can say that to get to authorize a client.
So one very very important and popular is authorization code grant.
Right.
This one will also cover this.
But these are just normally not you can say that encouraged.
But this is the important part.
Authorization code grant right and refresh token grant is also used.
But we will cover all right.
So you will get to know that.
But it's a mechanism used by client to obtain access token.
You will get to know about access token and all.
So don't worry about it.
And now let's see a flow of authorization code.
Grant this one I am telling you the flow of for this.
So these are the four clients Resource Owner client, Gmail Authorization server, and Gmail Resource
server.
Right.
The use cases that I am the resource owner, I want to log into Instagram.
And I am already logged into my Gmail.
So Gmail has known about my name, age, date of birth, email id address.
So Gmail I have all the data Instagram wanted to use this to help me to sign in.
And Gmail also has its authorization server.
So now what's the flow?
So I am telling you about authorization code grant now first.
So now first Instagram has to do a registration with authorization server.
So it has to do register.
So if Instagram has to show an icon here that says sign in using Gmail.
Sign in using Gmail.
So first it has to register to this authorization server.
And this Gmail authorization server will return two things client ID and client secret.
Right.
So now Gmail authorization server knows about this Instagram.
Right.
So this is your client ID.
This is your client secret, which only authorization server and only client should know this secret.
Okay.
So first client has done its registration and got its client ID and secret.
Now user want to log in to an Insta.
So I am the resource owner.
Let's say I come to.
I'm the resource owner.
I want to log into Instagram and I instead of putting my username password, I clicked on sign in using
Gmail.
I am already have a Gmail account.
I have all the information there and I chose this option that hey sign in using Gmail.
Now what client will do?
Client will redirect me to authorization server.
Gmail authorization server.
So it will redirect me to the authorization server where I have to authenticate myself.
I if I am not logged in to Gmail, I have to provide my username ID of the Gmail and I have to authenticate,
right.
And also provide the consent.
So you might have seen that you are Gmail would might show you you are providing this this this permission
to Instagram.
Are you okay with it.
And you have to provide yes.
Provide it.
So you are providing nothing but a consent okay.
Once you provide the consent authorization server, will goes to the instance and provides the authorization
code.
One code will be given, which is known as authorization code.
Now, using this authorization code, Insta again call the authorization server and ask for the token.
Hey, give me the token now.
Now what would happen is when you ask for a token or Gmail authorization server will provide you two
things.
Access token and refresh token.
Right.
So access token is a short lived maybe let's say 10 minutes or 15 minutes.
Right.
But if it is expired you can use refresh token, which is a generally long lived token.
Right.
To get a new access token we will come that in later.
But currently you have to understand the flow.
So what happen is when Instagram asks for token using the authorization code, authorization server
will provide two token access token and refresh token.
Okay.
Now using this access token, Instagram will go to this Gmail resource server where my data is hosted
name, age, address, wherever.
Right.
And it says that, hey, this is the access token.
Give me this data.
Now what it will do is this Gmail resource server what it will do.
It will go call the authorization server and say, hey, validate this token.
I got this token.
Is it valid or not.
This authorization server validate this right and return whether it's a valid or invalid right.
If it is invalid, it will discard the request.
If it is valid, then it will provide information whatever it is asked.
Let's say your profile.
So your name age email ID would be shared to Instagram.
And after that it would sign in.
You successful, right?
If you are if your token is not valid and you are not authorized, it might certain for XX might be
401 for unauthorized right.
So this is generally the flow for this authorization code grant.
So now let's see the request and response for each flow.
But please note right.
Please follow the official documentation like the exact API names or more parameters.
This API names which I have taken.
This is just for like to help you better clarify, right?
This might not be an exact API names, right?
So that is just I want to say that hey, follow a proper Rfc's right?
Rfc's are generally you can say that official documentation for OAuth, you will see different versions
for explaining different different parts, but I'm explaining the APIs and response by taking some sample
API name.
Right?
Which makes sense in the context.
Okay.
Now first registration process.
So what is the first step?
Instagram.
The client has to register itself to the authorization server.
So it has to do the registration.
Okay.
So this is the register.
So this is the post API register.
And what it says that hey this is the client name let's say my my app name.
So here it might be passing let's say Instagram Instagram.
And it will pass the redirect URI.
So it three three URIs.
You can give max three URIs you can give where you want redirect to happen.
Right.
So so it's generally the callback.
So if you see many times this Gmail has to redirect right at many places.
In many places it has to redirect.
So.
You can define three redirect URIs during registration itself.
So what is the response.
In response you will get two things client ID and client secret.
Okay.
So registration process clear this client ID and client secret.
Client secret is very very confidential information which is only known by client and authorization
server right.
It is generally used to authenticate the client.
Let's say in this case Instagram.
Two authorization server.
Okay.
Authorization.
This is done.
Okay.
This is done.
Now the second is when the owner, let's say in this case I clicked on sign in using Gmail on Instagram.
What it will has to do is it will has to redirect me to the authorization server.
So how it does.
It invoke this Instagram now going to invoke this API authorize okay.
And what all the parameter it passed while this API first send that response type which is code.
So what this response type means this field specify that the desired response type from the authorization
server.
I want you to send me authorization code in the response.
That's what it specifies.
Or you can say that tell the authorization server what is the expectation of the client.
Here.
Response type should be some code authorization code.
It will pass its client ID the client ID got in the first step.
It will pass the redirect URI where the callback should have happened.
But if you see that redirect URI is optional if it is not present, then which redirect URI should be
used?
Authorization server will use any one of the URIs which are defined during at the time of registration.
Okay, so redirect URI is optional.
If provided, it should match with one of the URI provided during registration.
In registration, you can provide three URIs.
Right.
And during this fetching the authorization code part, if you redirect URI if you are passing then it
should be one of the redirect URI which you have defined at the time of registration.
Right.
If not provided, one will be picked from the list during the registration which you have given.
Okay.
Then there comes the scope.
So scope is like Instagram.
Want to access what all information from your Gmail?
So it is a space kind of thing.
So let's say I want email access your profile access or certain address access.
So there might be different different scopes right.
So these are space separated.
And you can tell like hey I want the scope for all this data right.
So whatever the data which you wanted to access this client, your client, it will add it here in the
scope.
And the last comes the state.
So state is some random value like SJ 111 some random value.
It helps in protecting CSRF.
Uh attack.
I'll tell you how, but first understand this API right.
So.
Instagram has now.
Redirect owner to the authorization server.
Right.
It has called this API authorize and pass this data.
Now what response it will get right.
So user will do the authentication there in the Gmail side.
If it is not login it might have to provide username password login to the Gmail.
And then Gmail will show you a consent.
Hey shreyansh like Instagram?
Want to access your email profile and address?
Are you providing the consent for it?
If I click yes, then what it will do is it will redirect now from the Gmail authorization server.
It will take me to the redirect API which I have provided here.
If I haven't provided there, it would be picked from the one which has been defined in the at the time
of registration and in the.
It will pass me some authorization code here and the state.
Right.
So now at this time when I am authenticated and provide the consent authorization server calls the redirect
URI, the callback URI, and pass the authorization code.
Right now Instagram got the authorization code.
Now.
But you can ask me, right?
Hey.
Authorization code.
Got it.
I understood what is the purpose of this state in the request.
In the request, I am setting this state, let's say some random value SJ 111.
And in the response authorization server also returning me the same SJ 111.
What is the purpose?
So see state is recommended.
It's not mandatory but it's it is recommended it prevents CSRF attack.
So now let's understand this.
I'll tell you this attack right.
So what happen is let's say there is an attacker and this is me owner Shreyansh.
I am trying to add let's say Instagram.
Right.
And this is the attacker and it has Gmail authorization server.
Okay.
So now let's say attacker has call at the rate authorized API.
And in return it got the.
Authorization code.
It has got the authorization code right.
This part whatever the authorization code here.
Now this authorization code attacker has saved it.
It didn't use it.
You can use authorization code only once.
An attacker didn't use it.
Now, let's say that I am the legitimate owner and this is the legitimate client.
I am trying to log in to this using Gmail, right?
So in the Gmail authorization server I have called the.
Authorize request.
This request I have sent this.
Now I am waiting for this response where I will get my authorization code right.
But let's say that if this attacker put its authorization code and they said, hey, this is the response,
right?
If it send its response code to me now, Instagram might say that hey, okay, I have I am already waiting.
I have already hit the authorize and I'm waiting for Gmail authorization server to send me the authorization
code.
But what happen is in mid attacker intercepted the request and it send you its own authorization code.
Now Instagram will say that.
Yes I got the authorization code.
Now using this authorization code what it will do is it will request for token and Gmail will provides
the token.
Okay.
Now you got the authorization code for the attacker.
Now Instagram will pass this authorization code attacker authorization code and ask for token.
Hey provide me token.
Now Gmail will provide you the token.
But this token is generated from what attacker authorization code, not the Instagram which it wanted.
Now ultimately using this token, it will get.
It will call the Gmail now.
And hey, give me the details of this token which I get.
Now to whom details it will send mine or attacker.
It will send the attacker one.
It will send the attacker one because this authorization code is related to the attacker.
So ultimately what I do is I will get sign in to Instagram using attacker.
Just see about an app where you login using Gmail of an attacker, and there you upload certain files
where it will upload to.
Let's say you want to upload certain to drive Google drive where it will get upload to.
It will get uploaded to attacker one attacker Google drive.
Right.
So this is the CSRF attack cross-site request forgery right.
So this is how uh state comes into the picture where it protects the legitimate client.
How so?
Now here, if you see that attacker and this is the Gmail attacker, call the authorized API and it
will get its, uh, code.
Authorization code.
Now attacker saves it.
Now I am the one which is trying to log in to Instagram.
So Shreyansh wanted to log in to Instagram using Gmail.
So it Instagram made request to authorization server, call this authorized API authorize.
I have set this state some random unique value which is very difficult to guess, right?
So I have set said also the state, let's say a state.
I have said SJ111 right.
Let's say some unique value which is very difficult to understand, difficult to generate or guess.
Now let's say attacker somehow pass me its response.
Hey, this is the response your authorization code.
Right.
So attacker tried to send me its authorization code.
Right.
And in the state it might be passing some random number in the state.
But now what I will do is that I will compare the response which I am getting the authorization code
and its state.
So I will compare the state, the one which I sent SJ 111, and the authorization code which I am getting.
Also it has a state, so is it equal?
If state is not present I will discard this request Us if a state is present, but it is not matching
with what I have sent, then also I have discarded this because it is not might be.
It's a CSRF attack because this response is not for the one which I have sent, the one authorized request
which I have sent.
I have set the state as 111, and when the Gmail authorization server returns me the authorization code,
it will also pass this state same as 111.
Then I will compare.
Hey, I got the authorization code.
This state matches with what I sent.
If it matches, I will accept this authorization code.
So you got it.
What is the purpose of the state?
Now, using this authorization code, what client will do is it will try to fetch the token.
So now there is another Post token API.
So it will put a grant type as authorization code because we are doing the first one authorization code
grant.
So the grand type is authorization code.
What is the code you got?
So authorization code.
Then the first step we got in the response right.
Which server side authorization code.
So we pass it that the redirect URI.
It's an optional.
If you don't pass the redirect URI the one will be choose from the registration at the time of registration
which you have defined the client ID and client secret.
So now here, if you see that in this step the client secret is used, the client has to authenticate
itself that I am authenticated one.
And this secret is the confidential which clients get during the registration okay.
Because using this token you can access protected data.
So client is also need to authenticate itself.
So grant type the grant code which you get in the previous step the client ID client secret right.
And in the response what you get is you got access token through which you can access the protected
data.
It is a short lived token.
Expires in 3600.
This is in seconds generally.
So it's like 33 seconds is one hour.
Right.
So it will expired in one hour.
You can change it.
This is just an example.
Right.
So generally it's a short live like.
Expires in let's say 15 minutes 30 minutes or whatever.
And token type is bearer.
What does bearer means adds.
It tells the client that you should pass this token in the authorization header whenever you want to
access the protected data.
And one thing you will get is refresh token.
Refresh token means.
So if your access token expires, you can generate a new token using this refresh token.
Right?
I will show you the refresh token part also.
Now this token value right.
Access token which you get either it can be a JWT token or a plain string itself, right?
So JWT.
I will explain maybe in the next topic.
What are the format of JWT, what all information it can have.
But this token you can either be plain string or JWT token itself.
Okay, now you got now the client Instagram got the access token.
Now what it will do now it will call the Gmail whatever the endpoint and get your data right.
Whatever the in the scope it has got the token or code for.
So now for all that scope, email address, whatever the scope would be, it can fetch the data and
using that it will help you to sign in.
But now let's say that your token got expired.
So what you have you have to renew it.
So how you will renew it using refresh token.
And.
this refresh token is your another grant type, right.
So this authorization grant type is nothing.
It's a mechanism to obtain the access token.
So using grant type refresh grant type you can get the access token.
So this is how it is.
So I am calling the token again grant type is now refresh token right.
And I will pass the refresh token value here in this refresh token whichever I got right redirect URI
optional.
If you don't provide it, one will be used from the registration time which you have provided the client
ID and the client secret.
So this is the response.
You will get a new access token right.
And the new refresh token.
Right.
So if this expires you can generate a new token using this new refresh token Likewise.
So this complete flow is clear.
This complete flow API request and response is clear.
This is for authorization code grant.
This is very important.
So now there is another grant type is called implicit grant.
This is generally not recommended to use.
Generally authorization code grant is the one which is highly used.
But still it is better to discuss about this.
So here in the authorization code grant type what used to happen.
Instagram and Gmail authorization server.
It will ask for first authorize.
Hey give me and it will get code.
And then using this code it will get the token.
So in the implicit there is no there is no two process.
You get the token in the one process itself.
So in the authorize The response type is token earlier in the authorization code.
Grant.
What is the response type code?
Hey, I wanted the expectation of the client is from the authorization server that I want code.
Authorization code in this expectation is token response type it is expecting is token.
You have to provide the client ID right?
Whatever the client ID you have to provide the redirect URIs optional scope and state.
Right.
So here in the response you will directly get access token value right in the whatever the redirect
URI, you will provide it right here.
Here in this URI itself you will get the access token information.
There is no refresh token in implicit grant.
Why?
Because there is nothing like a like there is no two steps here.
It's just like an authorized during the authorized itself.
You can ask a new token.
Then there is something called resource owner password credentials grant.
Right.
Resource owner password credentials grant.
Now in this here, if you see in the token API.
In the token API what happen is grant type I will choose password right.
This is the grant type.
So there is no authorized API.
So here in this case there is no authorization code.
No authorization call.
So here I am providing the resource owner.
I am providing my Gmail username.
My Gmail password client is passing Instagram is passing its client ID secret.
The grant type it has chosen is the password.
Like this is the grant type for this one and the scope which it wanted to access.
So in the authorization code grant type here we are passing the code.
Right.
And for how to get that code using authorize.
But here I don't need code actually I am passing my username password itself.
So that's why there is no need for authorize API itself.
It is directly calling this token API.
Right.
So I think this token API is post right.
We can double check.
So I am directly calling this token API and passing my username password itself.
Right.
Client id secret and all the scope which I wanted to access.
And in the response it will return me the access token refresh token also.
Right.
And using if this get expires using refresh token I can renew it and during renew using refresh token
you don't need to pass the username password.
So grant type is let's say refresh token right.
You can pass client ID client secret and also the refresh token.
You can pass this one.
So you don't need to provide username password at the time of refresh token usage of refresh token to
get a new access.
Okay.
And the last one is credential client credential grant.
So in this case generally what this scenario is like when resource owner is self is the client.
So generally earlier it was a scenario like this right Shreyansh Instagram and then Gmail.
So here resource owner is different.
Client is different.
But in this client credential grant client is also this resource owner is also this.
So whatever the data it is trying to access from let's say Gmail whatever authorization server.
The client is itself is the resource owner.
In that case, client credentials grant is used.
Right.
So it is calling the token.
It's passing is client ID client secret and the grant type it says that client credentials.
Right.
And the scope and the response it will get is access token.
Again there is no refresh token required in this because it's just like if you want if this got expired,
you want to generate a new call the token pass your client ID secret.
You will get new, right?
It's easy.
You don't have to pass any username, password or any code with the same request you can get generate
a new token.
So there is no need for authorization call itself and also there is no refresh token also.
Okay guys thank you and I for any questions ping me.
We can discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Symmetric & Asymmetric Encryption with Explanation of AES, Diffie-Hellman ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do a most important topic that is cryptography.
Why it is most important topic.
Because we are using it day to day.
We are using chat application which says that we are end to end encryption.
How you might be visiting website daily.
So many websites that are https secure, how you might be using JWT in your day to day work, office
work, what, how, how JWT do the authentication and integrity right?
So everywhere, no matter if you go one level deeper, you will find that cryptography got involved.
So that's why I said it's the most important topic because it make your foundation of system design
solid.
Okay, so without wasting any time, let's jump into the topic and let's try to understand it better.
What is encryption?
Encryption is the process of converting readable data into the text, which is difficult to understand,
which is also known as Cypher.
Right.
So a text which is easily readable form.
So through encryption we can convert it to a cypher okay.
Or the text which is difficult to understand.
So it makes use of cryptographic key right.
So consider this as an example.
Here is a very readable text concept coding okay.
Now I am passing it through a encryption method.
This encryption method make use of this key which is known as cryptographic key.
So encryption method make use of this key and perform its algorithm and convert this readable text into
a unreadable text or cipher okay.
So this encryption method might have its own algorithm for this purpose.
Let's say depending upon the key, its algorithm is that move two letters forward.
So C convert to F, right.
So c d e f right.
So key is two.
So skip two letters and then convert it to f.
So this is just a simple very very basic encryption algorithm okay.
So what I'm trying to say is that this encryption method uses key.
And based on its algorithm it do the encryption.
Similarly decryption method it accepts this unreadable text or cipher text.
Pass it to a decryption method along with the key.
So this key can be same or can be different depending upon the encryption algorithm which we are using.
But the thing is, this description method uses this cipher text plus key, which is also known as a
cryptographic key.
And then convert this back to a readable format.
So encryption is of two types.
Symmetric encryption a symmetric encryption.
And before I start I tell you that there is nothing like asymmetric encryption is only one which is
very highly used, because I know that there is a conception that symmetric symmetric encryption is
nowhere used everywhere.
Asymmetric encryption is used.
No, they are both like a left and right hand.
They are both used simultaneously.
I'll tell you how.
And they both are very popular.
Let's see that.
And I think by the end of this session you will get clarified why symmetric encryption and asymmetric
encryption both are equally important.
Not like asymmetric encryption is popular.
So symmetric encryption The same key is used for both encryption and decryption.
So we have seen an example at above right.
So let's say you have a user this is sender.
This is receiver right.
So sender is sending the data passing to an encryption method.
And let's say key used is five.
And after this it got data.
Cipher data.
This is plaintext.
This is cipher text right.
And in the decryption now this receiver what it will do is it pass this cipher text to a decryption
method.
And it uses the same key.
Key equals to five.
Only it uses the same key.
And get the again plaintext.
So symmetric encryption is same.
Key is used for both encryption and decryption.
Asymmetric encryption is that uses two different keys that is private and public key.
So here again you have a user.
So it has a plain text.
Okay.
So here it might call an encryption method using key one right.
And it gets a cipher text.
And once this receiver got the cipher text it passed it to a decrypt method.
And the key it might use is that some key two but different key.
What I'm trying to say that different key right.
And then they get the plain text again okay.
So symmetric encryption same key is used.
Or symmetric encryption two different key is used which is known as private key and public key depending
upon the uh like algorithm.
Let's say uh, you are what operations you are performing.
Let's say you are encrypting the data then encryption can be done through public key and decryption
can be happen through private key.
But there are certain scenarios like digital signature encryption happens to private and decryption
happen through public.
So you can say that this what key to use for encryption decryption depending upon the scenario.
We will see that okay.
But first part is clear right.
What is the difference between these two.
Then the second part is that what are the important algorithm for symmetric.
So symmetric.
There are two algorithms DS and DS.
DS is popular earlier.
But now it is not recommended because I think in 2005 uh, it has been uh, cracked.
Right.
Why it is cracked.
Because the key size length is only 56 bits.
So using a brute force approach, this DS encryption has been cracked.
So ease is something which is more advanced.
That's why it's named as Advanced Encryption Standard.
And this is actually very popularly used.
Why why it is difficult to, uh, break it because the key length is bigger than DS.
So in DS the key length is 56 bit.
Here we have 128 bit.
Or if you want more security, we can even increase it to 192 or 256 bits depending upon.
But remember the bigger the bits, the more security, but computation would be more so it would be
little slower also.
Okay, so based upon your trade offs you can decide what you want okay.
So it provide this flexibility.
You can choose 128 key size or 128 bits, 192 bits or 256 bits, a process the data in 128 bit chunks.
What does it mean that?
So let's say here my data was concept encoding.
Concept coding.
So you know that concept coding internally it would be 010110 in A01 terms it would be there.
So as performs the encryption or takes the data into 128 bits chunks, it process them into 128 bits
chunks.
Likewise that's what this line says, that encryption round depend upon key size.
This one I will come later when I will explain the as functionality.
So okay so these are the two algorithm for symmetric encryption.
Similarly for asymmetric encryption what are the algorithm.
We have RSA DSA Diffie-Hellman and Ecdsa.
Right?
So here in this case, I would say that Diffie-Hellman is also very popular here.
And RSA is also very popular.
So RSA uses I think 2048.
Key length.
See it's very high right.
As compared to.
Yes.
So you can say that it's more secure more secure than symmetric.
So now let's see the advantage and disadvantage of both.
Then you will get to understand that in which scenario symmetric encryption has to be used and in which
scenario asymmetric encryption has to be used.
So first thing is symmetric encryption is fast and less computation compared to asymmetric.
I told you that the key length is 128 bits right.
And maximum it can be 256 bit.
And if you see the RSA itself or asymmetric the key length is 2048 bits.
So the more the key length, the more the computation you have to do.
And the it would be slow for sure.
So AOS is faster.
Symmetric encryption is faster because key length is maximum.
You can have is 256 bit of AOS.
So that's why it is good option for encrypting bulk data like a chat application.
In the chat application you have to do lot of encryption, right.
There is a lot of uh data.
You have to, uh, keep on encrypting.
So it's a good option for symmetric encryption.
Okay.
So good for encrypting bulk data.
So this is the advantage.
And what is the disadvantage of symmetric encryption.
by the time you have already known that by this line itself.
Same key is used for encryption decryption.
Let's say that this sender and receiver has to talk to each other, and they have to decide that okay,
this is the sender.
This is the receiver.
This sender has to say that that hey this is the key five which we have to use for encryption decryption.
How it will tell to receiver securely.
What if there is certain hacker listening to this network.
And while sender is sending that hey let's use key five for encryption decryption.
And what if this hacker knows that okay, key is five.
Whatever the data you will send over the network, it can easily find it.
And you can decrypt also because it got the key.
So one of the disadvantage is the key distribution.
How to securely distribute the key between client and server.
And that is also makes a very good interview question.
If you are saying that okay we will use a symmetric key.
Symmetric encryption and symmetric encryption uses same key.
The question is how you will make sure that key is securely distributed between sender and receiver
without hacker knowing it.
So this is the one disadvantage of symmetric encryption.
Second is the number of client increases may mean server has to manage those number of symmetric keys
and distribution.
What does it mean.
So let's say you have only one server and you have multiple clients.
So each client.
So each client has to have a different key right.
So let's say for this communication.
They are using KY five for this communication.
They are using KY four for this communication KY three.
This communication KY two.
They can't use same KY for both because otherwise then he this user can intercept and decrypt its data,
right?
So KY should be different for each user.
So means who has to keep the mapping server has to keep the mapping right.
Okay.
User one this is the key five.
User two.
Key 432.
Like this.
Because KY between different user can be same.
It has to be different unique.
It has to be unique okay unique between a client and a server.
So number of client increases means server has to manage those number of symmetric key and its distribution
too.
Because server has to distribute the key also.
Right.
So the same problem is existing and it has to manage those number of keys also.
But advantages it is faster.
So what is the advantage and disadvantage of asymmetric encryption now?
No security issue with the key distribution.
Why?
So let's say that you have a user which is sender and then you have a receiver.
Okay.
So they are what happen is this receiver.
Or you can say that the server it has its own two keys private key.
And another is public key.
Okay.
So as the name says that public key is known to everybody.
So let's say even if there is any hacker which is intercepting this network.
So hacker also knows that server public key sender also knows about the server public key.
So when sender has to send the data so it will encrypt it using.
Public key.
Public key of server so it will encrypt it with what key?
Public key of server.
Now this encrypted data goes till receiver.
And let's say in hacker mid.
Also it is able to get this encrypted data.
Now it has to decrypt it for decryption.
What it required it required private key.
So private key is only known to this server because this private key is never transferred over the network.
So hacker is not aware of this private key itself.
And when it's not able to know the private key this not able to decrypt it only who can able to decrypt
it?
Only this server.
Because this private key only it should be able to decrypt it.
Okay.
So that's why it says that no security issue with the key distribution as each user has a secret key
private key, which then do not forward it.
Okay.
What is the second advantage?
Is it provide a key exchange protocol like Diffie-Hellman.
One thing is what is the disadvantage of symmetric key distribution?
Let's say you have a key.
You have a user the server receiver and server receiver.
And this is the server or this is client client and server server has key five.
And it want to securely distribute it to the client.
How to do it Diffie-Hellman provide the solution.
And this Diffie-Hellman uses internally a symmetric encryption only public private key concept only.
So key exchange protocol like Diffie-Hellman can be possible only because of asymmetric encryption.
Right.
And that's why I told you symmetric and asymmetric both goes left hand and right hand.
In many applications like chat application, symmetric encryption is used.
But for symmetric encryption you have to server has to distribute the key to the client which has to
be used.
And through Diffie-Hellman which is based on asymmetric encryption, can be used to transfer that key
securely on an insecure network itself.
So without worrying about a hacker.
Right.
So I'll tell you how this works.
Also very important.
And another advantage of asymmetric is digital signature.
So digital signature you know that it helps to authenticate and provide integrity.
So what does it mean that When you have a client, you have a server.
Client is passing the data to the server.
Now server has to know that first is client one only send the data.
Second the data which it has sent.
Is it modified in mid or not.
So this is like authentication.
It authenticate.
Is this the client only has send the data or somewhere in mid has intercepted and send it something.
Who has sent it.
So it provides the it helps digital signature helps authentication.
Second integrity.
The data which is I received has somebody modified this data or not.
So this digital signature is also using a symmetric encryption private public key technology only.
So these are the advantages of symmetric encryption.
But what is the disadvantage.
Advantage.
Disadvantage is computation intensive, right?
I told you RSA itself is too.
I think it uses 2048 bits.
So let's say a mathematical formula where if you have like certain, let's say number upon or raised
to power, uh, some your key.
So some let's say five raised to power 2048.
I'm just giving you an example of some mathematical formula.
So more the length of a key, the more computation intensive it is.
And that's why it is slow also.
So a symmetric encryption is not suitable for encrypting bulk data as it is little slow compared to
symmetric.
So you got it when what is symmetric and what is symmetric.
Encryption.
When to use when not to use each.
Okay.
So now we will see three important part one is a yes because we are saying encryption, encryption,
encryption internally encryption.
What happens?
It will.
You don't have to learn the algo or understand fully.
But I wanted to tell you that when we say encryption I got a key.
Now I will encrypt it.
I got a key, now I will encrypt it and I will get a cipher.
How this encryption works actually until unless you don't get actually a clear picture of it, it's
always a partial information.
So I will at least tell you about AES so that you will get to know that how encryption algorithm works,
whether it's AES or RSA, DSA, they might have different algorithm, but at least you know okay, this
is how they convert a plain text into a cipher text.
Then I will tell you about Diffie-Hellman this, how the key is securely transmitted over the network.
Right.
Because it's important.
Because without this, a symmetric encryption is not even possible.
And then also I told you about digital signature because JWT uses it.
And our next topic would be JWT.
So digital signature also we require it.
Okay.
So now let's talk about AOS, which is a advanced encryption standard.
And it's a symmetric encryption algorithm.
First of all it's a block cipher means it processes the data into blocks of 128 bit.
I already told you that AOS process into blocks of 128 bits.
So all the data internally is this.
And then it processes data into 128 128 bits only before going to this process.
Let me tell you certain terminology.
First terminology is state array.
What is the state array.
So here, if you see that the data of 128 bits blocks or the key, what is the key size of a 128 bit
or 192 or 256?
For this example, I'm saying let's say 128 bit.
So whether it's a key or whether it's a data it convert it to an array.
So if it is a 128 bits it will convert into a 4x4 array.
Right.
So like this it will convert one byte is eight bits.
So total 16 bytes.
Total 16 bytes means 16 into eight is your 128 right.
Total 128 bits.
So whether it's your data of 128 bits, this part 101.
So this 128 bit block.
So each 128 bit block, it converted into an array like this.
Even the key which is 128 bit it convert into an array like this which is known as state array.
Okay.
Then the second word which you have to know is word a set of four bytes.
So a set of this yellow line, a set of four byte is known as a set of four byte is known as word.
So in this 4x4 matrix how many word is possible for 123, four.
These four yellows right.
So four byte is known as word.
And in this 4x4 matrix we can have four words.
And this group of four word is known as round key.
So this is your third key term.
So first is state array.
You know that.
What is state area 128 bits?
Whether it's a data or key, it's organized into 4x4.
Matrix is known as state array.
The group of four byte is known as word so, and the group of four words is known as round key.
Okay.
So now let's see a quick algo.
So what does happen in this algo is that say that 128 bit key is generated.
There might be certain method like random key generation.
And you tell that we want 128 bit key because we are using for example as 128.
So means 128 bit key length we have to use.
So first we have to generate a key of 128 bit key.
We can use any method like random key generation method.
Right.
So we can generate 128 bit key some unique number 128 bit.
Now we are saying that uh we will call encrypt method.
And that encrypt method will pass the plain plane data and the key and it will encrypt it.
How?
So now what happened internally?
First.
Key expansion process happen.
So what does key expansion process do.
The 128 bit key.
This 128 bit key it convert it to 44 words.
I told you right.
So 128 bit key means it would be converted into like 4x4 matrix.
Then this 4x4 matrix there are four words only.
So how come it converted to 44 words?
Because maximum we can get is four words one, two, three, four out of this 4x4 matrix.
So what it does is so the subsequent words it finds like doing an XOR.
So I'll tell you let's say you have word zero word one word two word three.
Okay.
So till three words we can get right easily.
So we can create a 128 bit keys.
Right.
So key byte zero key byte one.
Likewise key byte 15.
And this is your word zero word one word two word three.
So till here we can get but we still need 40 more words.
How it can get what it can it what it generally do is that it will do XOR it will do XOR of.
You will get word four right.
So this word three it I think it passes through of one function for the function this word three.
And whatever the value it got.
Right.
Whatever the value it got, it passed it to XOR and the word zero or you get word four.
So word five How you get the word five.
XOR of this word.
Four.
And the previous word one.
Right.
You got word five.
How you get word six.
XOR of the word five and the previous word two.
Word seven.
XOR of the word six and the word three.
So you got next four right?
So if you want now word eight how you will get it.
So from the last word you first pass it to one function.
It will give you certain uh, another uh different value.
Do an XOR.
Now the same.
Repeat the same.
Let's first now it continuously do this till you get till 43.
So with this 128 bit we can get 44 words.
The key is this process is known as key expansion.
I will tell you why 44 words is required.
Okay, now we have got the 44 words.
Now what it does is it take out the first chunk of the data, which has to be encrypted because it processes
the data into chunks 128 bit blocks.
Okay.
So and it has to run for for each block of data.
And each block is 128 bit.
So this process now has to run for each block of data.
So I got my first block of data which is a plain text.
Now this is the process.
First add round key.
What does add round key means.
Let's say you have a data by zero.
Data by one.
Data by two.
Data by three.
And then you have data by four.
Data by five.
Data by six.
Data by seven.
And likewise.
Right.
So what it has to do is that add round key.
So out of this 44 words you know that round key is set of four words.
So it uses it consumes your word zero word one word two word three.
Because this four words makes one round key.
So it use this word zero word one word two word three.
Now what it will do is it do xor.
So xor with word zero, xor with word zero, xor with word zero, xor with word zero.
This one XOR with word one.
XOR with word one.
Similarly with word two word two word two word two, word three, word three.
Likewise.
So what will do is it adds the round key to the data block.
Then it performs multiple rounds.
Round one.
Round two.
Round three.
Round four.
Round five.
Round six.
Round ten.
And each round contains these four steps.
So it does substitute byte shift row, mix column and add round key in each round.
This four operations.
This four operations happens.
Right.
So in each round you say that there is a add round.
Key means four words.
It will use four words.
It will use.
So four words means ten rounds means total 40 words.
So here it would be using like 40 word 40 word 41 word 42 word 43.
It will use this in the last one.
So 40 words use here in this uh 1 to 10.
And here we have used for.
So 44 words is totally overall consume.
Okay.
So likewise, uh, so this operation, what it does is that let's say you have the data.
I'm just I'm not going in depth of each one.
I'm just add round key.
You already know right.
What generally happen it do the XOR substitute byte.
Let's say you have data byte zero.
Data byte one.
Let's say that here data by two.
I'm just saying uh, just taking for example 012345678.
Like this.
You have an array substitute.
What it will do is let's say that this one, it will substitute with some other byte, this algorithm,
it has an algorithm that okay this is the byte.
bite.
Let me substitute with this.
So this algorithm knows that with what data it is substituting.
Okay.
Shift row means what it does is that let's say do a circular shifting, uh, rows.
Let's say it do left shift.
So this four comes here, seven comes here and one goes back.
Similarly five comes here, six six comes here.
And three it was 0122 comes here now.
So shift rows similarly mixed column.
So what it will do is it will mix the column values.
So let's say your byte was here.
Let's say 01011010.
I'm just saying something.
So what we'll do is it will mix the column with the upper column, do XOR so it will mix it.
Certain mixing happens between columns and then add the round key.
So whatever the let's say for round one it would the words would it will uses 567 for this one is eight,
nine, ten, 11 and so on.
And last one it will use this and it will do XOR with all this keys like how we did it here.
And after all this step we get a ciphertext block.
You understand this 128 bit plain text block is now converted to a ciphertext block.
After all this thing.
And during decryption, this 128 bit ciphertext block is now going in an opposite direction.
First add the round key.
Now again the same 42.
It will start, it will go top and then it will get a 128 bit plain text block.
So you got it right.
Whenever we are saying encryption, encryption, encryption we are actually doing lot of this stuff,
lot of stuffs.
And mathematics involves in this substitute bytes shift rows mixed column also.
But at least you got the high level.
What substitute byte what shift rows actually does mixed columns.
So do certain change the values based upon the algorithm.
Right.
So that's where here it I have mentioned that based upon the key size your round depends.
So if it is a 128 bit key right.
How many round it does ten rounds.
If your key size is 192 bits it do 12 rounds, 256 bits, 14 rounds.
Right.
The more bits the more security as it will add.
Do lot of more modification on your input data.
Got it.
So team nobody asked you like okay, tell me how encryption works.
How Round one works well.
This is just for your understanding.
When we are saying encryption, encryption internally, what actually happens?
There is a lot more mathematics involved in it, which I have kept abstraction with you.
But this will give you a glance that okay, this is how the data is internally stored into 4x4 matrix.
And this is when we say that add salt.
Add salt to the data means adding more rounds, more keys.
You are adding it right.
So this is how actually it works.
Okay.
Now let's understand the Diffie-Hellman a symmetric encryption.
Because symmetric encryption is not possible without this.
And you know the problem because both the parties has to share what key they have to use, what common
key they have to use, and to share it over the network.
What if I listen, I'm am a hacker, I listen it, I can able to decrypt it, right?
The whole encryption algorithm will fail.
So Diffie-Hellman which is an asymmetric encryption, it provides a way to share the secret key without
sender and receiver between sender and receiver over secure network.
Okay.
So it provide a way to share the secret key between sender and receiver over insecure network.
How so?
With diagram I will explain you how and there are formulas involved.
So I think with this diagram it would clarify you.
So let's say this is a sender.
This is a receiver.
They first this is let's say insecure network.
Insecure network.
Just just assume that somebody is listening to this network.
And whatever the data is going over this network, somebody knows it.
It's insecure, so first sender and receiver both share between each other that this data.
Let's say that hey ball is green.
They both share over the network.
So at this time what they share is actually the prime number and the primitive root right.
So they now both know that hey prime number I choose is seven and primitive root is three.
They shared it over the network that okay.
Now this also knows that okay prime number is seven.
Primitive root is three because they have shared over the network.
So insecure network.
Any hacker also knows this data okay.
Okay.
So at the this is the first step where they have just decide common common data.
Right.
So this is the common data prime number and primitive root If anybody of not from mathematical background
and they ask like what is primitive root.
So it is what happen is that whatever the prime number you have.
So let's say primitive root is three three raised to power, one three raised to power two mod seven
three raised to power three mod seven four mod seven.
Likewise.
So whatever the values you got, it should be your between 1 to 3.
Ultimately, whatever your prime number minus one, you should get all those values right.
So until where you should use prime number minus one like.
So I have used a prime number seven.
So I can do let's say I want to find out a primitive root I start with let's say two two raised to power
one two raised to power, two two raised to power.
Three two raised to power.
Four two raised to power.
Five two.
Raised to power six till six.
Because minus one.
And also do with mod.
Whatever the prime number, let's say here is seven mod seven mod seven, mod seven mod seven.
Now I will check that okay, whatever the values I get, it should have all these values one, two,
three, till whatever the prime number you have chosen Prime number minus one.
All the values should have come here.
So if you see that with three I got one I got two, I got three, I got four, I got five, I got six
all I got.
So this is a primitive root of this prime number okay.
So in the first step this two things is decided.
What is the prime number I am choosing.
What is the primitive root?
I am deciding for this I am I choose for this.
Now the second second part is I told you this is a a symmetric encryption.
So now they randomly generation of private key happen.
Okay.
So now this sender find out it's one private key.
This also find out it's one private key.
So let's say it generated it's private key.
As for it's generated it's private key as five okay.
And this is your prime number which is seven.
And primitive root which is three.
Prime number is seven and primitive root is three.
And they're now randomly generation of private key happen.
They haven't shared it on the network.
Remember some.
This is red and green is some private.
Third step.
Calculate the public key.
Now they have to find out the public key.
So this is the formula.
Primitive root raised to power private mod prime.
So here is the primitive root.
Primitive root was three, prime was seven and private was four.
Right.
So three raised to power private four mod prime number which is seven.
So I got four.
So my public key is four.
Similarly this side also it will calculate primitive root is three raised to power private.
It's private was five mod prime number.
So prime was seven.
So it got its public key as five.
So you know that this public key is something which we can share over the network.
So now they will exchange the public key.
Right.
So they will exchange the public key over this network.
So it got this five this part grey part grey ball.
It comes here and this brown comes here.
Okay.
So primitive root was three, prime was seven, Prime was seven.
Primitive root was three.
So till now hacker knows what.
Let's say that hacker is continuously listening to this network.
So hacker has what all information hacker knows about primitive root.
Prime number seven.
Primitive root three.
And this public.
So it knows about, uh, this, uh, public key five and this public key four.
So it knows about this two key also this and this.
But hacker doesn't know about this private key yet.
At both sides.
Now with the last step with the last step is to calculate the shared secret key.
The formula is that the public key which I got.
raised to power private mod Prime.
So what is the public key?
I got?
Public key I got was five five raised to power.
Private key.
My private key.
So this was four right.
Mod prime number I got two.
Similarly here is shared public key.
The public key which I got is that four four raised to power my private key which is five mod prime
number which I got two.
Now here if you see that both got the same key.
Now hacker even though has all this information but it doesn't know about this private key, this key,
this private key.
So it cannot compute this value.
So you know that this is how Diffie-Hellman works, that it helps to share the secret key without T1
hackers know about it because they don't.
Hacker doesn't know about the private key.
Now you can ask me right here.
Like can't hacker do brute force and compute this?
What?
How we can say that Diffie-Hellman is secure.
So generally what we say is that let's say some value raised to power private key.
Okay.
When we are doing mod something mod n and you are getting certain output.
So the Diffie-Hellman is that says that choose the private key very very big.
Okay.
So that even if hacker knows this value, hacker knows this value.
And even hacker know this value, without this private key, it cannot find like what is the private
key?
Even if we do brute force.
One, two 123456.
It would.
It would be very difficult.
It gonna take years, right.
Because first we are doing mod n so we don't know whether with four.
Also I'm getting the same value of five.
Also we are getting the same value.
We don't know.
So this process makes it very complicated.
Says that choose the private key big very big.
So that it's gonna take years for hacker to compute the output value, even if it know what is the output,
but it don't know the private key.
So it's gonna take years to compute this.
So that is clear.
Like so this computation is very expensive value raised to power private key.
So that's where the Diffie-Hellman says that it is secure.
It enables the securely transmission of keys over the network.
And it uses public private key.
So it uses a symmetric encryption.
You got it right.
So now let's see how digital signature works.
So I already told you that digital signature is used for two purposes.
One is for authentication.
And second is integrity of data.
Authentication means that it provides a sender has to know that okay this data is coming from this user
only the intended user okay.
And the integrity of data means the data which I the sender is getting is the same which was actually
sent.
Or if something has been uh, modified in mid.
Okay.
So how it does.
So here this is the flow diagram of this digital signature.
So let's say you have a plain data.
Let's say hello.
Okay.
So I am not doing the encryption of this plain data.
This is just a part to explain the digital signature.
So let's say plain data.
Hello.
First is pass it to a hash function and generate the hash.
So I got the hash.
You know the property of a hash is that if a same data is passed through a hash function again and again
you will get the same hash value.
But even if the little very minor is something change in the data, the hash function will generate
a total different hash value.
Okay, so the first part is pass this plain data to a hash function.
Compute the hash of it and this hash is of fixed size.
No matter.
You have so big data, so less data, you will get a fixed size hash value.
Then we have to pass it to a sign algorithm.
So in the sign algorithm the sender.
So this is the sender.
So sender has to pass its private key which is secret to this sender.
So it will sign sign this hash with its private key.
So with this sign algorithm you will get certain value which is known as signature okay.
So what it does at the sender side.
So it take the plain data pass it to hash function.
You got the fixed size hash value.
Now for this hash value you pass it to the sign algorithm.
And you also provided the private key using this private key.
And this hash value it generates some value which is known as signature.
Now when you pass your request you pass the data.
For this example, I am not doing encryption of this data.
Just say that I am passing the plane data itself.
So now I am passing this two things to the receiver.
The plane data and the signature.
Now first thing receiver now has to know authentication that okay the sender one only has send this
data and also the integrity of data that this data is not changed.
Whatever the data it got.
So what it will do is whatever the plane data I got I compute the hash function.
And I told you whenever the same data, no matter how many times you pass it to the hash function,
you will get the same value.
So you will get some certain hash.
Now you want to know that whether this data has been changed or not.
So what I will do from the signature now you will pass it to the verify Algorithm.
In the Verifi algorithm, you pass which key the public key of the sender.
So you remember during the sign sign has happened to private key, which is secret to it.
So you would be only able to you can say that the verify only with the help of sender public key.
So this if you are able to verify means you are able to authenticate because.
Sender private key sender one private key only its public key sender one public key only would be able
to verify.
Let's say some other sender has sent it.
Sender five.
Right.
So you can't just verify it with sender one.
Public key.
Right.
That's not possible.
So once you able to verify that with the sender public key, you able to verify that and you able to
get the hash function out of it.
And once you get the hash value, you can match it.
What the plain data hash and what the signature hash you got.
Is it equal or not?
If it is equal means data is not changed at all.
If it is not equal means this plain data has been modified in mid.
Right.
So this digital signatures this is how it helps authentication and integrity of data identification.
Right.
And that's why it is also known as asymmetric encryption because it uses private key and public key.
So during signing it is signed through private key of a sender.
And during verifying it uses the public key of the sender only.
Okay.
I hope you got little bit understanding of cryptography.
Okay, guys, uh, if you have any doubt, please bring me in the comment section.
Uh, we can discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- JWT: JSON Web Token ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do this JWT JSON web token.
And if you have not seen the OAuth and cryptography videos in the same playlist, then I would highly
recommend to go through this because JWT is highly linked with OAuth, uses JWT and JWT uses cryptographic
keys and.
All right, so go through it once it's already been covered.
And today let's just start without any wasting time.
What is JWT.
So in a very, very simple term, it provides a secure way of transmitting information between parties
as a JSON object.
Right.
So you already know JSON object right.
It's like key value pair key and then value comma key value objects generally, right?
So what?
JWT is just a secure way of transmitting information between parties.
Okay.
This information can be verified because it's digitally, digitally signed using RSA etc. like Hmac
is one more algo which we can use.
Okay, so the message which you are transmitting between parties that can be digitally signed and how
you can digitally sign.
I have already explained the cryptography, but for now, in this definition, what you have to focus
on is it was developed as just a way of transmitting information securely.
That's all.
But over the time we are using JWT in many different areas for authentication, for authorization Position
and in.
So whenever you are doing single sign on right, you are using JWT.
And this is also one of the good interview question how you will implement single sign on to implement
a single sign on you need JWT, right?
So when I say that authentication JWT is used for authentication means confirming the user identity.
If I am saying it verifies that yes, he is shreyansh.
The message which is coming from Shreyansh authorization means it check for permission.
If I am trying to fetch certain details, then JWT also helps in authorization that does Shreyansh has
authority to fetch this detail or not.
Yes, authentication is done.
I am shreyansh, but do I have an authority to fetch certain details or not that also you can do and
single sign on.
You already know that you have signed in one.
Application one.
You have signed in.
You have already logged in.
Now there are different app.
App two.
App three.
Right.
Same user.
So here you have signed in, but with the single sign on you can log in to different application.
Now without trying to provide your username password.
So it it was built as a way of just transmitting information securely.
But this is today at this three places it is highly used.
And this advantages.
We will come again once we have finished all the understanding of the JWT.
Because then only it will make sense because when I say that it is self-contained, it's only when you
understand what is JWT, how it is a structure looks like, then only you will get to know.
Yes it's self contained.
Okay, so don't worry, we will come back to its advantage one more time once we will complete the JWT.
But for now, what is JWT and where?
Today they are highly used.
That should be in total clarity.
Okay, so this is you can say a flow of JWT today in the authentication part.
So this is let's say this is a client.
Okay.
So this is the first happen is so this is your authentication server.
So let's say any server which are there are many third party libraries available which provides you
the APIs through which you can generate token validate token.
And all right.
So that's why any application authorization authentication server.
So this is your app.
This is your application.
Right.
So and this is let's say any third party application.
Which support token generation and validation.
Okay.
There are so many available today.
And that's one of the advantages of JWT that you don't have to incorporate the authentication logic
in yourself.
There are already, uh, third party libraries available, which we can use, and they will take care
of generating a token, validating the token for you.
You just have to invoke them.
Okay.
So let's call that third party application as authentication server.
So as a client Right.
First I have to provide the username password.
So it will goes to an authentication server.
You provided your username password.
Now what this authentication server will do.
It will generate the token and return right.
It will generate the token JWT and it will return back to the client.
Now client will do is the client has the JWT.
Now it wanted to access a particular resource right.
So what it will do is it will call our application resource where the resource is actually stored.
So it will call the resource and pass the JWT in the header.
In the header.
Okay.
So let's say it calls the get API.
This is the get API.
Let's say uh some details but it passed the JWT also.
Now what this resource server your application will do is it will internally calls the API of Authorization
server.
Let's say some verify API and it will pass the token which it get from the client.
Now this all this logic present into authentication server where it will validate.
Yes, this token is generated by me.
It is valid.
I will tell you we will go more deeper into the token part how it validates it.
But just for now, understand that authentication server will validate the token and it will tell to
your application that yes this is token is verified.
It's valid.
It's valid token.
Once it is valid token resource owner will grant you the permission and it will return you the data.
Okay.
So this is the flow diagram of JWT.
So till now we are clear.
But before we proceed further we need to understand what was popular before JWT.
and what are the problems with it?
So if you remember right before JWT there was something called session ID or many engineers might know
it through session ID.
I have worked with session ID right?
So but this was very, very popular session ID so in this what used to happen is let's say a client
first what it will do.
Is it login with username password.
The same let's say authorize authorization or authentication server.
Third party server is there.
Or generally what used to happen was resource server itself performs this task.
Also.
Generally there is no third party library, but for simplification purpose, let's say that you have
another application which generates the session ID Okay, so first user provide a login with username
password.
It goes to your application.
What it will do is it will create the session ID and save it in DB.
That's the important part.
It will put into the DB that this is the session ID right.
And store all the information like expiry time, let's say session ID this belongs to this user.
This is the expiry time and other information that what are the roles like.
It can only fetch user details let's say certain roles it has put.
So all this data will put will be inserted into DB.
And this ID session ID which is just a unique random key Will be given back to the client.
Now with this ID.
So whenever it's send a request in the cookies.
This client will also pass this session ID.
Right now this resource server has to call the DB.
Now with this session ID fetch all the details, do all the logic okay.
Expiry time does it expired roles.
These are the roles.
So whatever the operation it wanted me to do send like fetch this does it has this roles or not.
So it will do lot of validation at their side.
And if it is got validated then only it will send the response, else it will throw error.
So one of the major major catch is that every time you are hitting a request to fetch the details,
it is hitting the DB to fetch the details from this particular session ID.
Why?
Because at the time of creation of session ID, when the time you provided username password, it was
stored in DB.
So it is stateful and JWT is.
Stateless.
There is no DB touch.
Whatever the JWT token we are returning.
That JWT token has all the information like expiry regarding user information etc. so there is no need
for DB and that's one of the advantage that it is stateless.
So Your J session ID is stateful.
It relies on server side state management.
Right.
And since DB comes into the picture, now you know that in case of distributed system this might cause
a problem, right?
Let's say the server the application which creates this session ID into this DB right.
So there are let's say different cluster of DB.
This is master slave.
This is one cluster one.
Let's say there are different cluster of DB.
So in a distributed system this all has to be sync up.
All DBS has to sync up.
We don't know this get request.
This get request comes to where okay.
So in case of distributed system extra handling need to be taken care.
Right.
And also one important part is during your Get request, your application has to query the DB, perform
validation on top of it so there would be an extra latency add up of querying the DB.
Now let's go back to the JWT again that what is its structure?
How does it become stateless.
Right.
It needed so many information that rose expiry user ID and maybe some other unique ID.
How it is able to store this just a token, right?
So this is the JWT structure.
So there are three things right JWT, JWT, J.W. but whenever we are talking about JWT right.
Ultimately actually we are always talking J.w.s.
Right.
So this you can say that always used together.
JWT J.w.s.
We will.
I will tell you how.
So let's say understand this JWT structure JWT structure has three part one.
After that there is a dot period.
Then this is the second part.
Then again there is a dot and this is the third part okay.
So this first part is known as header.
The second part is known as payload.
And the third part is known as signature right.
Let's go one by one header.
So header already contains the metadata information of the token metadata like what is the type always
JWT you will always find.
I have never seen any other value apart from JWT till now.
It's always JWT algo the signing algorithm.
So here the signing algorithm which you have used RSA or Mac.
Right.
Or if there are other different algorithms you can use it, right?
RSA I've already explained you in the previous cryptographic video and Mac is also I've explained you
this is symmetric.
This is symmetric cryptography key.
This is asymmetric cryptography key.
Right.
So I've already explained this.
So header contains information about metadata of the payload and the signature.
Now your payload.
So I told you that payload actually contains the information.
Or you can say that actually it contains claims right.
So in simple terms user information or any additional information is kept here.
Right.
JWT you see that these are the claims the understand claims.
Nothing like a just an information whatever you want to get.
So this these claims are divided into three parts.
Registered claims.
Public claims.
Private claims.
Okay, so in the payload it is all comes under this only all comes under this only.
But let's say that there are certain this words which are reserved by JWT.
So those are known as registered claims.
They have very specific meaning.
For example ES which JWT understand as issuer the entity that issued the JWT, for example ES is issued
by.
Some are JWT issuer at the rate that something some website link or something which identifies who is
the issuer, then subject identifies the user, let's say.
Subject sub 1234567.
Some unique identifier which identifies the user.
Who is the user.
Then your audience identify the recipient for which token is intended.
AUD let's say AUD would be uh, your whatever your your company name or anything for which it identifies
the recipient.
Then expiry time after this.
So exp is like which tell the expiry time.
After this time token is not valid, then nbf not before time before this token should not be accepted,
right?
So whatever the time is there before that you cannot accept the token and expiry is that after that
this token is not valid.
Then there is something called IAT, the time which token is issued and JT is unique.
JWT id some unique ID for this token.
So if you see that these names are reserved by JWT means they have predefined predefined name and meaning.
But now let's say that apart from this registered name, you have to put some other like I have put
here email.
So those would be considered as a public claim.
It's a custom claim which can be shared and understood by multiple parties.
Right.
So I have given the name email.
Anybody can understand that it will contain an email ID of the user.
Right or certain.
Don't never ever put some very very you can say that confidential information inside a payload like
some password or or never put never put your confidential information inside a payload.
Right.
So let's say email.
Apart from that, let's say that, uh, okay, uh, some, uh, country so I can put country, let's
say India.
So if you see that these are not registered names, I can put anything email, country, city or let's
say that last name, first name.
So these are you can say that a public claim which is understood which is understood by multiple parties.
Right.
They know that okay country I will get the what is the country name for this user like city.
I know that this what city belongs to.
So these are the public claims.
These are custom claims.
You can use any but it should be shared and understood by multiple parties.
Then there is something called private claims which is like understood by this your authentication server
itself.
So let's say that it calls that username password.
Now this authentication server has to generate the token.
Now let's say it has put uh I some IAM right.
And this is uh let's say resource server and resource server one.
Resource server two.
And it is passing this token to this JWT token to this.
Now this resource server one.
Understood this.
What is IAM what is IAM.
It doesn't understood it even though it is present inside here in the payload.
Let's say another IAM.
This is not understood by resource server one, resource server two.
When they pass it to authorization server for validate only.
This understood it.
Maybe for some internal purpose it might have added it, which is not understood by multiple parties.
That's what known as private claim.
Public claim is understood by multiple parties like, let's say country.
Yes.
Now resource server can understood that this is the country for the user.
But what is IAM I don't know.
I don't know.
Only authentication server might know it.
Who has added it.
So that is known as private claim.
It is again a custom claim.
You can add anything.
But these are not identified for.
But these are intended for internal use only and not standardized right.
So these are not standard like not expected other parties to know this resource server one doesn't know
this resource server two doesn't know this authentication server which created it.
They only know this right.
That's why known as private claim.
So understood.
So in the payload you can have have these claims.
But these claims are generally divided into three parts, but it's all under the same object, just
an object.
Now the third part is your signature.
This is very, very important.
And that's why I told you sometimes JWT and AWS when we whoever tells you JWT sometimes also covers
AWS because signature.
The third part of token is your signature.
And that's what Jess also is JSON web signature.
Okay, so they are used.
You can say that interchangeably.
So now what signature.
Now you now you have header.
Now you have payload.
Now what you will do how you will get a signature.
So what signature will do is it will first encode JWT header.
It will first encode Header base64 encoder.
It will do header payload.
Also it will do uh encode base64 encoding for this payload.
So it will also do base64 encoding for payload.
So it first encoded this header and it then it first encoded this payload.
Okay.
Then in concatenate the header and payload using this dot period.
So it will put a period and then concatenate this.
So it's now one string.
Okay.
So it would become like this your header and then your encoded payload.
Encoded header encoded payload.
So this is known as your message.
Or generally you can say that uh your information.
Now you are using RSA or any cryptographic, either asymmetric or symmetric, to create a digital signature.
Now you will pass it this message string to some algorithm.
Right.
So this is your one string message comma some key.
Because now we are passing it to algorithm.
If you are using RSA for example asymmetric key you have to pass a private key.
If you are using Mac you have to pass one secret key.
And the same secret key would be used at the time of digitally signing it, digitally verifying it.
Right.
Because in symmetric key the same key is used.
Same key is used while signing and while verifying it while right, and in the RSA two keys are used
are private key and public key.
So during signing it is signed through private key and during verifying the signature it is verified
through public key.
Okay, now once you have got this signature let's say some string encode the signature.
Also generate in the previous step you can encode it right.
Now let's say you have.
So whatever the signature you got let's say x y z a b c.
This is the signature you got.
Right.
You have to encode it.
Also you have to encode it base64 encoded also and concatenate using this dot.
So your header base64 your header dot.
Base64.
Your payload dot.
Now your base64 encode of your signature.
Got it.
So ultimately this is your JWT.
Gonna looks like.
So this is your base64 of header dot.
This is your base64 encoding of your payload.
This is your base64 encode of your signature value and how the signature value is generated I told you.
Okay, so here I have shown one sample get request.
Here I have shown you one sample API here.
If you see that I am making a Get request to this some dummy API okay.
And in the header part there is a header called authorization.
You have to pass like bearer and pass this this token.
Now you can ask me, right.
Hey, why we have to pass this bearer.
So in the header right there are you can add multiple like key value right.
So one of the standard industry standard is that wherever you are passing the credential you have to
pass the credential into authorization header so that it would be handled accordingly by the server.
Right.
So that's why I told you right.
So there are certain industry standard that yes I will get credential.
So it should be inside this header of authorization.
So they can put a specific logic.
It should not be like randomly anywhere coming.
So this is the header name.
They have decided that okay authorization put inside this.
Now inside this authorization there are multiple thing like basic Bearer when like you are doing that
basic and then some encoded value a b c d e f g something so basic means that you are passing username
password.
So when you decode this base64 value decode this.
For the basic you will get like something like this username colon password.
But if you are passing like bearer and then value then server will understand that okay this is not
username password.
This is token bearer means like industry standard means token is passed to me.
So I should behave in accordingly.
Okay.
So you might have a different logic.
If username password passed you might have a different logic that okay if bearer comes means token is
passed to me, then I have to call certain server and validate it okay.
So JWT is always passed from client to server in the header of authorization, but with the bearer word
not basic.
Remember Basic is for username password, so credentials always pass into authorization.
So this is a sample request.
Okay.
So now before going to the challenges with JWT.
So now let's come back to advantage.
First thing is you understand that it's a compact.
We are encoding it.
And because of its size it can be go inside a header itself HTTP header itself.
And its transmission is also fast because of its small size.
I have already told you it is stateless.
It is self-contained.
All the information you can kept it expiry time, user ID, anything it is can be digitally signed.
So I have already told you j.w.s.
Generally what we understand JWT.
So we are we are adding a signature right.
So that is AWS.
So means we are signing your token.
So JWT J.w.s.
Is using interchangeably.
You can say that.
So we can sign it using H and RSA.
And when you sign it at the receiver end you can validate that yes the message is not changed at all
right.
Built in expiry time I told you that it is stateless.
You can add expiry time here.
So you don't need DB.
So built in expiry expiry mechanism.
Is there custom claim additional data can be added in JWT like roles.
You have to add certain roles for this user.
You can add it into the claim itself.
So these are all the advantages of JWT which makes it stateless.
But now very very important part from interview perspective.
What are the challenges with JWT?
So you understood till now, right?
But before challenges, I will also tell you that let's say single sign on.
So.
So let's say that this is your company.
You have F1, f2, F3 this is you.
So now I think you already know what how the single sign on works.
So first it will goes to certain authentication server where it provided username password.
It will get the JWT token.
Now what does happen with the single sign on is let's say you are trying to log in to.
You are trying to opening this app one W-w-w dot let's say f1.com.
You are trying to open it.
So what it will do is it will pass the JWT token also whatever you have received.
And when this app one receives received JWT token, it internally tried to verify the your JWT.
If it verifies it will sign in.
Right.
And all this user information like let's say username email ID is already available in your payload,
so it can help you to sign in.
Hi.
Strange, how does it know?
It knows to JWT token itself that payload has maybe my name, my email ID so it able to verify me.
Similarly when it able to goes to app to it will pass jwt app to uses the let's say verify this token
from the server authentication server once it validated.
So verification signature everything is all good, nothing tampered.
It will help me sign in also.
So here if you see only once I have provided the username password I got the token.
Now the same token, I am using it to login at multiple places.
So that is known as so.
And this is implemented through JWT.
Now there is one big problem with JWT token invalidation.
Since JWT is stateless what does stateless means that these servers application server doesn't know
about this JWT at all, right?
It is issued to a user.
Now once it comes to them, they just validate it.
If it is valid, they will provided the access.
Now let's say that this user is fraud user.
This is fraud.
Now I want to block.
Now I want to block him.
Block this user.
But this user has a token which has expiry time of let's say, uh, today is, uh, March, let's say
April till 20th or 21st April.
So till 21st April, this has a valid token.
Now, even though this is a fraud user, how you will make this token invalid?
If I make this request to this application two it will check with the server.
Pass this token.
This token is valid.
Its expiry is not yet come.
So how you will invalidate the token.
So let's say that I have a blacklisted user.
How to invalidate a token before its expiration.
Biggest problem.
So there are today multiple ways through which we are doing this.
First is server need to keep the list of blacklisted tokens right.
And either the DB or cache lookup is required while validating.
So here.
You have authentication server, right?
And then there you have app one.
App two multiple.
So it can maintain a.
Token.
Blacklisted.
Blacklisted tokens.
Right.
And each token is identified using a particular ID.
I already told you there is something called unique token ID, right?
So now let's say that based on that it put the particular JT this token is invalid.
This is blacklisted.
Now when this fraud user is passing the JWT token and it is trying to validate it, it will check its
blacklisted.
Whether it's putting it in cache, whether it is putting it in DB.
This blacklisted list it can validate that hey this token ID is there in blacklisted list.
I need to deny it.
But this has a problem.
That which the problem you are solving with session ID avoid lookup of db or cache.
Now you are doing that.
Okay so this is one problem.
But so this this will solve the problem.
But this again has a disadvantage that you have to do a DB or cache lookup.
Okay.
What are the other ways.
The another way is to change the secret key itself.
So the change the secret key.
Uh, let's say that the uh, earlier you were using for signing it, you are using RSA.
Let's say you are using private key.
Public key one.
This is public key one.
Now you have changed this key to two.
Two.
So now at the time of verification it will verify the signature right.
So now it will try to verify with the new public key.
So it will invalidate because it was signed through one private key one, and if it will only be verified
properly if you sign it with public key one only.
But now you have changed the key itself.
So it will it will deny the user.
But what is the problem?
Or if the apart from this fraud user, if there are some genuine user also which was given a token using
private key one which was given a token which was signed using private key one that will not be able
to access your data.
Also, they might have to log in again.
So that's the problem.
That uh, second is if you change the secret key, this will solve the problem.
But this will make the JWT invalidate for all genuine user also.
But this is you can say that again a problem.
What other thing we can do is make a token should be very short lived instead of till April, right?
Let's say instead of till April.
What if I make that okay only for five minutes?
Your token is valid only for five minutes.
Your token is valid.
Okay.
So this will resolve a problem, but still till five minutes that problem exists.
So this sometimes is very popular.
And also this is popular.
That token should be used only once.
So generally this is combined token should be used only once plus very short lived let's say five minutes.
And it should be used only once.
After that you should generate a new token.
So this might solve a problem okay so but these are the different ways based upon your requirement.
Uh one of the solution is implemented.
Right.
So you can also ask me that.
Hey, how do we know that token should be used only once again to implement this?
This, uh, j JT the unique token id.
JT unique token id is some somebody.
It has to be stored in cache or somewhere where it will check that.
Hey, I have seen this token before, right.
So somewhere it has to do the DB.
So but you can say that the short lived tokens are that's why very popular.
It's not whenever you get a token it's not valid for one day, two day, one month.
They are very short lived.
Use it in within five ten minutes.
After that you have to might need to log in again okay.
So token invalidation has a problem.
Genuine problem.
There are different solution for that based upon the requirement of the let's say the question which
has been asked or your company multiple uh, you can say that mix or one of the solution is implemented.
Second JWT token is encoded not encrypted, so it's less secure.
I told you right.
You have header, then you have payload and then you have signature part.
Ultimately token is your encoding of header dot encoding of payload dot encoding, base64 encoding of
your signature value which ultimately got.
So here if you see that payload has mostly all the information and that is encoded, and you know that
this encoded payload, you can simply do base64 decode and you will get the data.
So this is less secure.
And for that j w e comes into the picture which is JSON web encryption.
So what it does is nothing.
Exactly same what we are doing.
But instead of encoding this letter of this payload, it will do encryption of this payload.
That's all.
And at the receiver side when verify should be happen they can decrypt it.
So your authentication server knows the keys let's say RSA for encryption decryption encryption should
happen through public key.
Decryption should happen through private key.
We have already discussed in the previous video right.
But JWT is right.
Encrypt your payload only.
So JWT token is encoded not encrypted.
It's not secure.
What to do?
Go for JWT.
In JWT, your payload part is encrypted and when your application calls the your application calls the
server to verify it.
So server knows already the key how to decrypt it.
So they will decrypt the payload and then do it, fetch the information and check expiry time and all
and then do the validation.
Okay.
So third the interview question comes is that in the JWT token ultimately let's say now you will get
more clarity JWT and AWS JWT token.
If it is not j.w.s in the JWT token you have header, you have payload and there is no signature.
So in the header you know that algae part which says that what algorithm you are using for signature?
It is none.
I am not signing it.
So such that is known as unsecured JWT where your algorithm is none for the signature that JWT should
be rejected.
Ultimately this JWT there is no signature part.
An algorithm is none, but this is known as unsecured JWT, J.W. says.
JSON web signature where you have an algorithm.
RSA whichever and you are doing the signature.
Also putting the signature.
But that is known as j.w.s.
But since nobody is using JWT without the signature.
So that's why the terms are JWT J.w.s.
Use interchangeably because nobody use JWT token with algo.
None signature always present.
Okay, so without signature it is known as unsecured JWT which is never entertained.
It should never be.
It should always be rejected with algo.
With none.
Remember?
Now see, this fourth and fifth part is very important from, uh, you can say that interview and uh,
the majorly attacker which use there is something called j w k j w k exploit.
So in the header I told you about type, I told you about algo.
But there is something called j w k also, right?
It is your key JSON map key.
So public key is shared in this public key is shared in this.
And it say that.
So you know that signature you have a message.
So message is sign using what key private key.
And this verify message is verified through public key.
Now this message JWT you got a message and it is already signed right.
And now this user is trying to call a resource server and passing the JWT.
Now this resource server should not have any logic to read the in the header.
There would be some j.w.k it will pass the public key.
Also this n or e combinedly form a public key, right?
This is I think, your exponent part and this is your modulus part.
So this both combine make a public key.
So resource server should not verify your JWT with the public key which is coming inside this j.w.k.
No it might be possible that attacker has changed the message right.
And put its own public key and its changed the signature, also the signature of the.
So it is possible that in the payload, in the payload, attacker has added some, added some values
and it's signed it again with its attacker private key.
Now you got the JWT from this.
Now you have to verify this sign digitally signed that it is coming.
Uh it is a valid or not is data is tampered or not.
If you use this public key which is coming in this j.w.k.
You might get.
Yes, it is verified because attacker might have added its public key.
Hey, verify with my public key.
So you might get accepted this payload that this is valid payload.
But my attacker might have added some other details which is not intended.
So JWT exploit is that never use public key which is shared inside this j.w.k.
within a header.
So what to do?
How?
So now let's say that resource owner want a public key.
Want a public key to verify it.
How to do that.
Or let's say that resource owner is calling the authentication server.
Now authentication server has to get the public key to sign it.
How it knows there is something called kid key ID.
I told you initially, right.
There is something in the header.
Also there is something called kid which you can add it inside a JWT also at the top also.
So this kid is nothing but a key ID, right?
And this key ID is used by your authentication server.
There is whatever the authentication server you are using right.
They all maintain a well known J.W. Jason.
So they have their own.
Or you can say that a link where they have a list of public key, list of public key which can be used.
So these are you can say that the whitelisted public key which authentication server can use.
And since these are public key everybody can know it right.
There is nothing to hide it.
So that's why they have generally this kind of link.
Whatever the authorization server, authentication server third party you are using, they might have
their own well known JS dot JSON.
This will contain the list of public key and each one will have a ID.
So this ID is present here.
So how the public key now authorization server knows that which public key I need to use to verify this
signature.
It uses the kid looked into it's Whitelisted public key and choose one kid.
Okay, this is the public key.
This is the kid.
This is somewhere.
Stored securely.
Public key.
And it will use that.
So now you know that these are the whitelisted.
These are the whitelisted public keys which can be used.
Right.
And with the kid, you can get that with the kid.
You can use that from the list.
So you got it.
Now if attacker you can say that.
What if attacker adds its own public key here.
Right.
And pass that kid right.
Then it's an issue.
Then we have to use a third party.
That's why we always say that choose a third party properly who is well known has taken all the precautions.
Right.
Security measures.
Otherwise, attacker may add its own public key into its whitelisted Stayed right somehow, and then
pass its own kid in the header and your resource server.
Uh, or maybe you, when you pass authentication server, use that kid.
And they say that, yes, this is present into my whitelisted public.
Let's accept this payload.
So you got it right.
These are some of the issues with the JWT.
And this is actually what JWT is.
I hope it's clear what problem it solves, what problem it has.
No there is no silver bullet for any technology.
JWT is highly used but it has certain gaps.
But there are like if used properly, right then it's uh like very very beneficial.
It makes life easier.
Authentication.
But.
Okay guys, see you soon.
Bye.

--- Thundering Herd Problem | Why Ticket Booking App goes down during peak traffic? ---

Hey guys, on this side.
And today I will be discussing in ten minutes the recent issue, which might happen with the ticket
booking application when they have opened the sale of a concert at 12 p.m..
Okay, the system goes down.
They haven't shared any RCA or any block.
But see, let's say that what issue could have happened and how it can be resolved.
So generally, if you see any application, we already have load balancer.
And let's say that we have multiple instances of our component or of our microservices.
In this case we have ticket service.
Let's say it's instance one, ticket service instance two, ticket service instance three.
Now any request which comes to the load balancer, it will divert the request either to one of the instance.
And each of this instance is Instances also safeguarding itself through a queue.
You know that thread pool executor.
Each application which we build builds upon its capacity.
We also configure the thread pool executor and the queue how much actually it can handle it.
So this is already we have right.
Okay.
So now what happened is there is a term called Thundering herd.
So in this problem what generally happen is at any particular instant right.
Let's say at this moment the bulk.
Or you can say that the bulk of request comes suddenly.
There is a huge spike in the traffic.
Okay.
That's where the term thundering herd.
Okay.
So what happened in this case is that might be at 12 p.m..
M when the sale has been started, the multiple requests came.
Okay, and it goes.
Load balancer work is to just distribute between this instances and each instances is now totally filled
each instance.
Q is totally filled and they are continuously working on to their full capacity.
Okay, now any more request is coming.
Definitely Q is full, all threads are busy, all threads are busy for all this thing and Q is also
full.
Definitely first.
There will be not entertaining any new request.
Right?
So what happening is.
New request got denied.
Okay.
Second problem which might have happened is retry.
Now all this request which got denied.
They are also getting retried.
Okay, so new request.
Plus retried one.
Now it is.
Keep on coming.
Okay so always remember also one more point.
Let's say that this request is there in the queue.
Okay.
Now when your system is working on a full capacity latency cannot be the same okay.
Latency increases when you have more threads.
Let's say that your thread is ten maximum thread is 100.
Now when the system is running on full capacity means all 100 threads are working, right?
Queue is totally full.
So this all things required memory.
Okay.
So means when your system is running on full capacity.
Latency also impacts and when the latency also impact.
This is also brings a cascading impact.
How?
Now let's say that the existing request is taking more time.
Earlier they used to get finished in 10s.
Now because of this, uh, resource limitation.
Right.
And huge request pile up and processing in parallel.
This ten second has been increased to 22nd.
And in this discussion I am saying that let's say that even the ten second got increased per request.
This can also result in a timeout of the existing requests which are processing.
Maybe the request which are waiting in the queue.
That might also get request timeout right.
Client haven't heard it back.
It is.
Just keep on waiting into the queue.
They also get retried.
So this retried request right?
This is one I think is a major issue which need to be handled properly.
Okay.
So this is one very important part.
So one question might be coming to our mind that hey if there are more requests definitely there should
be some auto scaling has happened.
Okay.
Yes auto scaling might have happened.
But here if you see when the auto scaling also has happened, will it be able to process any new request?
I doubt it.
Right.
This retry is something which is has the capability to spam everything.
Okay.
So now this retry request also comes to this load balancer.
And it also is assigning to this auto scale.
This will also get filled up right.
All the requests.
Now it is possible that the request which are here in this one it could also be here.
It could also be here, and it could also be here.
The retry request keeps on piling up.
So what?
What could be the scenario?
What can we do for this retry.
Okay.
So one is that.
Back off.
Or you can say that exponential back off.
So generally which is the formula is base into two raised to power n where n is the number of failures.
Where n is the number of failures.
So now let's say that request one comes.
Okay.
Uh so it is processed at let's say your base is -100.
So at the first, uh, first failure, the when the first failure happened, base is 100.
So this is retry one.
So two raised to power one one failure.
rate.
So it is happening at after weight of 200 millisecond.
Let's say the retry two means second failure 100 into two raised to power two 400 millisecond.
So like this.
So like this exponential back off is one strategy for the retry.
But again exponential backoff is not the foolproof solution.
There is also a situation when all the retry requests is retrying on the same time.
Generally, this is a common formula for the exponential backoff.
If all the retry requests are also using the same formula means they are keep on retrying at the same
time, which do not resolve anything, and again, they are keep on piling it up.
So another solution is like.
Exponential.
Back off.
Plus jitter.
Jitter.
When I say jitter, jitter generally means bringing some randomness, right?
So earlier formula was base into two raised to power n right.
So what jitter will do is that it it's its formula.
Is that minimum of.
Your let's say maximum time which you can wait maximum wait time.
Comma.
Some random from zero to let's say base into two raised to power n okay.
So now what it will do is whatever the exponential back off you are doing, do it.
But pick a random of zero to.
Let's say between this you are picking some random number okay.
And because of this exponential backoff, it will keep on growing.
So we have to keep a limit that they choose a minimum either the maximum wait time or this.
So this jitter is nothing but a bringing some randomness.
So it will bring randomness on this retry so that all should not retry at the same time okay.
This generally currently in this scenario these queues are working as a first line of defense which
I'm thinking can further help is our rate limiter.
So now let's say that here we have our application gateway.
And here I have a rate limiter.
Now this this would be our first line of defense right here.
Not this queues now.
So this rate of limiter let's say that I am using here token bucket algorithm.
Token bucket algorithm.
So this token bucket algorithm, you know.
Right.
Uh, let's say that in one minute, 1 million requests comes.
Let's say that or let's say that.
Not in one minute, let's say instantly now, now itself, 1 million requests comes with token bucket.
I have the capability that, hey, whatever the capacity of my system is, I will do some computation
and I will only make this much token available.
So it has token.
Only that much token would be available.
Only that much request will go to the next level, okay.
And others will wait in the queue over here or it will get rejected from here itself.
So here we are making sure that our systems are working fine existing.
They should not reach to their maximum capacity, where even the latency gets increased and even the
existing request is getting timed out.
We should not reach to that level, actually.
Okay.
And bring the, uh, some jitter in the retries.
And also here we can, uh, token bucket algorithm or through rate limiter, we can make sure that even
the instant burst come, can we spread it across like in a particular interval, let's say 0 to 1 minute.
Even the instant traffic come.
Can this instant traffic be distributed across a minute?
Okay, so rate limiter I'm thinking of plus for the retry.
I already told you that, uh, backoff plus jitter and definitely auto scaling should be there, but
yeah, will definitely look forward to the blocks and the actual root cause.
But please feel free to share your thoughts on this one.
What's your take on this recent issue?

--- API GATEWAY and Microservices Architecture ---

Hey guys, and welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today in System Design Playlist I am going to cover a new topic which is very, very important,
which is API gateway.
There are so many questions which build on top of it.
And I'm going to tell you the complete, uh, overall design where this API gateway fit and these two
are the most frequently interview questions get asked.
If API gateway is a single entry point, how does it handle millions of requests per second or sometimes?
Also like how API gateway is different from load Balancer?
Does it come before or after the load balancer?
And trust me, so many engineers has doubt on this one.
What is API gateway?
In simple terms, it accepts the client API request and route them to correct backend service based
on API endpoint.
Read this line again, because this is what makes it different from a load balancer.
So let's say that this is a client and API gateway is in mid, so it accepts your request.
Now API gateway will decide hey if it is this API slash API slash invoice it has to route to this microservice
invoice microservice.
If API structure is like this it has to route to order microservice.
If API structure is like this, it has to route to sales microservice.
Okay.
So it routes the API to correct backend service.
Isn't this what load balancer also do?
No.
Generally load balancer simply distribute the traffic to multiple instance of a microservices.
So for example once the request is coming load balancer task is to just equally distribute the traffic
between multiple instances of a same microservice.
So invoice microservice one, invoice microservice two, invoice microservice three, and many more.
But it do not have the capability to understand an API.
Okay.
And then take a decision where to route.
So load balancer doesn't have capability to understand this API okay.
It is slash invoice.
I have to move it to invoice.
Otherwise I have to move it to order.
No.
And that's the major difference between API gateway and load balancer.
So apart from routing what API gateway is doing right.
Based on the end point, it decide where to route which microservice to route.
It has so many other capabilities, right?
API gateway is very intelligent compared to load balancer.
So first thing is API composition.
So here if you see I will tell you the problem with the API composition.
So now let's say that you are opening a e-commerce website and you are going to like view my order,
view my order, click on button.
Now you have to see your past purchase history.
Now let's say if you are clicking that option from Mobile device.
So mobile device has very less bandwidth.
You can say that.
So we show less details.
So we show let's say only these two details product details and invoice details.
So mobile device Client is using an API.
Just take it as an example one from the product microservice and one from the invoice microservice.
And fetching the detail of product and fetching the detail of invoice and showing the details.
But now let's say if you are using computer or a personal computer there, it has more space and bandwidth.
So you might show more details.
So maybe the same page for the PC device client.
Apart from product and invoice, it is also showing ratings and reviews.
It is might be also showing recommendations.
So even though the same page but based on the device also you see the functionality differs.
Okay, now on the PC device line you need to query more APIs.
Or maybe it is possible that different microservices also to fetch those details.
Now here if you see this is an additional headache on the client.
So with the help of API composition feature of API gateway this can be simplified.
So now here if you see that in the API gateway we can configure the endpoint.
Let's say slash API slash my order.
If the client calls this now API gateway has a Intelligent that okay, if it is a mobile device, I
will call this two API.
Those two microservices and fetch that product detail and invoice detail API gateway has an intelligent
okay.
If it is a personal computer device then I have to call additional APIs.
Okay.
Gather the result and return the single response.
So now here, if you see that the client work is and the complexity is reduced a lot.
So this is this feature is known as API composition.
And it is very very important.
And it is very frequently used in Netflix.
So Netflix the API gateway which uses it is highly used this API composition.
Okay.
Then we have another feature of API gateways authentication.
So what happen is so let's say you have a client they are calling an API gateway.
Okay, now API gateway also has capability to authenticate the client.
So now let's say that if it is using OAuth 2.0 flow.
So in the first step the client get an access token from the authorization server.
If you are if you don't know about the OAuth 2.0 flow, check out this playlist I have covered in depth
of this OAuth two point flow.
So it would become clear to you.
So in the first step, the client gets an access token from the authorization server.
Now any subsequent request the client pass this token to the API gateway.
API gateway integrates with authorization server and validate this token.
Hey the client.
It is trying to access an API and it gives me this token.
Is it a valid token or not?
Now authorization server validated yes, yes or no?
If it is yes valid, then only API gateway allow it to pass to a microservices instead of.
You are putting an authentication logic here.
Here, here you are duplicating the things.
So we are putting the authentication at the front itself.
Only after authenticated it will go further.
The third important feature of API gateway is rate limiting.
So we can set various rules like managing the burst ram burst limit.
So burst limit is something like it's handling.
The peak means maximum number of concurrent requests that API gateway can handle before it return 4
to 9 too many requests.
So if you are using AWS Azure API gateway, you will have a option to set a burst limit.
You can put the value okay 500 something like this.
So what burst limit says that at a peak.
What is the maximum concurrent request API gateway can handle?
Then we have API throttling.
API throttling.
I would say that it's a more granular level, like we can limit a particular individual or an application,
right by blocking them once they cross an allowed request rate.
For example, I say that okay, this API slash API slash invoice, this API should not get invoked more
than ten times in a minute okay.
So with API throttling we can do that.
So ten times in a minute.
As soon as the 11th call comes in a minute it will fail it.
This will block it even you can go more granular that okay.
But ten times in a minute by a particular user, by a particular user also.
Okay.
So this all rules comes under API throttling.
You can also set rules to IP based blocking that a particular IP will get blocked, and also API queues,
which is uh, you can say that a part of rate limiting hold request to an API which cannot be processed
immediately.
It helps to handle the thundering herd issue.
So as soon as subsequent traffic comes.
Now let's say that 1000 requests comes in the burst limit.
I have only set 500, so 500 requests are will not be able to process.
So we can put into API queue.
They will wait in the waiting area till your API gateway get the bandwidth to process them.
So this rate limiting is also very important feature.
Another very important feature is service discovery.
Very important.
So now understand that you have multiple components.
Let's say you have microservices.
You have load balancer right.
There are multiple instances of everyone.
And today in the distributed world some go scale up scale down.
So their IP address and port number keep on changing.
So you need somebody to keep track of their location.
Who does that service discovery.
A microservices can scale up and scale down.
It's necessary to know the location, IP address and port.
Service discovery keep track of those.
So there are two different approaches.
Approach one.
Whenever each microservices scale up or scale down, it has to register or reregister themselves.
So they have to register to the service discovery.
And then only service discovery would be able to know about their location.
Another approach is that service discovery.
Keep the health check of all the registered microservice and keep only active microservices location.
So earlier it has multiple microservices which is registered in the service discovery.
So service discovery keep frequently health checkup.
Now let's say if it is not able to see the heartbeat of this one, it will remove this one from its
location.
And only whatever the somebody asks that, hey, this is a invoice.
Microservice one.
Invoice microservice instance two.
Invoice, microservice instance three.
Anybody asked for, hey, give me a location for invoice.
Microservice service discovery will provide one of them.
Okay.
So here you have a client.
It is calling an API.
It goes to an API gateway.
Now API gateway has the logic that okay it's slash order means it has to invoke order microservice.
Now it has to know the location before invoking that, right?
So how API gateway will know it will call service discovery?
There are various software like Zul and Eureka.
So they provide they serve as a service discovery.
Uh, software.
So API gateway, check with them.
Hey, I need a location for order microservice.
Service discovery will give it a location and it will pass it to the proper microservice.
Okay.
So sometimes there is a separate service for service discovery.
And sometimes this the complete functionality itself is inbuilt there in the API gateway.
So these four are the major capabilities of API gateway.
But there are other capabilities like request response transformation, the request which is coming.
And the response which goes out.
You can transform this according to your company needs.
You can even cache the response which is going out.
You can cache it so that the next time same request comes, you don't have to invoke an API itself.
You can directly response from here itself and even you can put logging.
Now, if API gateway is a single entry point, how does it handle millions of requests per second?
So before I go to this diagram, let me do some rough here and then I will tell you.
So till now what we have seen is we have microservices let's say invoice microservice.
And it has multiple instances okay.
Then you have order microservice and it will have its own multiple instances.
Now you know that.
Who will take care of distributing the traffic to a single microservices to a multiple instance?
It's load balancer.
So you have one load balancer which takes care of distributing the traffic between multiple instances
of this invoice.
Microservices.
This is invoice microservices.
Similarly, you will have one load balancer which takes care of responsibility to distribute the traffic
to a multiple instances of order microservices.
Now who will route the traffic to a load balancer?
You have API gateway.
So whenever the request comes to an API gateway API gateway, check with service discovery.
Hey this is API slash API slash invoice.
Let's say now with service discovery, it will give me an address of this load balancer here.
You have to interact with this in this scenario.
And if it is slash API slash order then API gateway will check with service discovery.
Service discovery will give an address of this load balancer.
And this load balancer will take care of distributing whatever the traffic it is coming among multiple
instances of that that.
So now I am just extended this to a next level.
Now here if you see I bring couple of new points region and availability zone.
So you need to first understand what is region and what is availability zone.
Now let's say when we have to answer that how it handle millions of requests per second.
And when it say that it's a single entry point, does it really a single entry point.
Right.
Then what things comes into mind is we have to understand first region and A-Z.
Consider this region as I'm saying.
Let's say, uh, Mumbai.
Mumbai is one region and A-Z is particular area.
Area one, let's say area two, uh, let's say Bandra and uh, now XYZ area inside this region.
So now in this each A-Z, there they have a dedicated data center, dedicated data center.
Notice that this A-Z.
So this is let's say A-Z one.
This is A-Z two in this region.
This region Mumbai has two A-Z availability zone.
Right.
Uh, maybe Bandra and some other area.
And each area has a dedicated data center and they do not share any resource if any one goes down.
It's not like the complete region is down this region.
Its traffic will now move to this one.
When this also both goes down, then only we say that hey, region is down, region one is down.
Then companies do have different region also.
Region two let's say maybe Chennai in Chennai multiple AZ one AZ two okay, so let's say one AZ area
is Sholinghur, another is some other area.
So even though one AZ got down doesn't matter.
This region has another easy.
If all the AZS availability zone get down then then also there will not be any single point of failure
because this region is also we have multiple regions.
So the same thing here.
So you already know that I have already showed you microservices.
Now slowly understand this.
Now I am going to extend it further.
You have microservices one.
It has multiple instances.
Who control the traffic to a multiple instance of a single microservice is your load balancer.
Similarly you have multiple different microservices.
So let's say this is order microservice two.
It also has its own instances.
Load balancer will take care of distributing the traffic to this multiple instances.
So this would be all under one availability zone.
This is your one availability zone.
Similarly you have a same structure in AZ two different availability zone okay.
Same microservices one.
It's multiple instances.
Microservices two it multiple instances and load balancer.
Now API gateway is one region level.
Let's say that any request which comes to an API gateway.
API gateway check with service discovery.
Service discovery has many criteria and rules.
It, uh, checks.
Let's say that user belongs to area one and the nearest availability zone is this.
So the location with service discovery will give to an API gateway.
So API gateway will route the traffic to this availability zone.
Now based on the API uh, either this load balancer get invoked or this load balancer.
Right.
If it let's say an invoice API, this load balancer which has an invoice microservice.
If this is an API, this load balancer get invoked, which is an order microservice, let's say.
Similarly, uh, if the user is nearest to this availability zone API gateway, get the location from
Service Discovery for this AZ and then based on the API, uh, appropriate load balancer will get invoked.
Now here, if you see that this is region one.
Similarly you can have multiple regions like this.
Region two.
There could be possible region three.
And inside each region you have the same thing.
So one thing is very clear that it's not a single point of failure.
If both the load balancer will fail mean this AZ got down, this AZ two will take care of it.
Now if this also got failed, this also got fail means your complete region is failed.
Then region two comes into the picture.
Let's say region two will take care of it okay.
So it's not a single point of failure first thing.
Now the question which might be coming that hey how.
we thought that API gateway is a single entry point, but now we have a different regions, different
API gateway, how the request is divided between different regions.
Also who who like here load balancing is distributing the traffic between single uh microservice instance.
Right?
Similarly, API gateway is kind of a another, uh, microservice, you can say or a software, and it
has its multiple instances here in different different regions.
Now who is going to distribute the traffic.
Is it load balancer is going to distribute the traffic.
You can say kind of.
So here if you see that the DNS comes into the picture.
So if you are using AWS there is something called AWS 53 route.
You can say that it is considered as a DNS based load balancer.
Similarly if you are using Azure there is something called Azure Traffic Manager.
It's again a DNS based load balancer.
So whenever the client makes a call.
Okay.
So a specific DNS based load balancer distribute the traffic between an appropriate API gateway.
And again it has the same uh intelligence like a service discovery okay.
Which traffic should goes to which region depending upon the latency compliance.
Maybe there are certain countries, let's say XYZ country.
Its traffic should not go to this region.
It can only be goes to this region.
So no matter, even though it's far the because of compliance, the traffic has to be moved to this
region.
So it's a very intelligent, uh, DNS based load balancer, and it can help to route the traffic between
multiple regions and appropriate API gateway.
Get the request from this.
Now, if you are curious, another question might come to you that, hey, isn't that DNS is a single
point of failure?
Then what if this DNS goes down?
Who will take care of moving the traffic to the API gateways?
No, this is again a very big topic.
But DNS is not a single point of failure.
It's not a single point of failure.
So whenever you type, let's say that hey uh example x y z.com.
So this has to be converted to an IP address.
Who helps it DNS helps it.
But there is no single instance of this.
There are multiple like DNS there is a hierarchy local DNS, root DNS, top level DNS.
Then it goes to authoritative DNS.
But maybe in future video of system design I will explain the DNS in depth.
If you have any doubt and question, we can discuss further and DNS I will cover in the second part.
All right.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Service Mesh and its Architecture in Microservices ---

Hey guys on this side and welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in system design I am going to cover another important topic how to microservices communicate
with each other.
So if you remember from the previous video in which uh, in depth we have covered an API gateway, you
can easily recall this diagram where like how the request comes to an API gateway.
And from API gateway it goes to a particular, uh, application load balancer.
And that application load balancer takes care of distributing the traffic to a particular microservice
instances.
Okay.
So if I just remove this, uh, complexity of region availability zone DNS.
So this is how simple it can be illustrated.
Now the next follow up question interviewer do is that how this two microservices communicate with each
other?
How.
And it is not that easy.
Question.
There are a lot of things.
Now let's say that if we don't know about service mesh, if we don't know about service mesh, and if
this question has been asked to me how to microservices communicate with each other, then what I will
do is I will do a like a brute force.
Let's see that what all things we need.
And then we'll see that how micro service mesh helps.
So let's understand that microservice A wants to communicate with microservice B.
So this is let's say microservice A and it wants to talk to microservice B.
How it will do.
The first capability it will need is service discovery capability.
So microservice A wants to communicate with microservice B then it needs its location IP address and
port number.
Then only it can call right.
So first thing it need is service discovery capability.
So here, if you see this all yellow icons which I am showing means this is the functionality you need
it.
So request goes to from API goes to load balancer.
Now it goes to a particular instance of a microservices one right.
Now this has to talk to microservices two or b.
So what it will do is it will check with the service discovery.
Hey give me the microservice B location and service discovery will return the location of all the instances.
So let's say that this is the microservices B and it has three instance.
So service discovery is one possible option is it will return all the address of this three instance
URL and port.
Or another scenario is the service discovery returns the address of the application load balancer of
microservices be itself its address.
Application load balancer address itself.
So no matter what scenario service discovery is following, the first capability you need is service
discovery capability.
If you if your microservice A has to contact with microservice B okay.
What is the second capability required.
Load balancing capability.
So let's say that scenario one where the service discovery is returning the Instance's address all the
possible instances address.
So now here if you see that generally in application dot properties of microservice A, it would have
because it has to talk with microservice B right.
So in microservice A Application.properties you will see this configuration.
Okay.
What is the URL and port number.
Because this has to be resolved so that it can invoke the Of microservice B.
So till now we have seen that we need service discovery, through which we can get the address of all
the instances of microservice B.
Now which instance to pick.
So that requires some load balancing capability.
So microservices need this client side load balancing capability also so that it can pick one of the
instance right.
And then it will fill this instance URL and port number of that particular instance.
And then it will invoke that particular instance of microservices B.
So the another capability which it required apart from service discovery is client side load balance
capability.
Or we have also seen another use case where the service discovery return the address of load balancer
itself.
Application load balancer in that microservice A can directly invoke the application load balancer itself.
But here, if you see there is an extra hop on network call is required, which might increase your
latency.
And that's one of the reason which I think, uh, this is less frequently used.
Okay.
So till now we have seen that two components are required.
One is service discovery, another is client side load balancer capability.
What else.
Third is authorization.
Even though these microservices A and microservices B is internal your company components itself.
But still it required authorization and authentication.
Also that hey.
If microservices A is allowed to invoke this particular API of microservices B is it authorized or not?
Okay.
And then sometimes we also want authentication.
The microservices uh, be want to authenticate.
Hey, I am getting this request.
Is it really from a or from somebody else?
So we need microservices also need this authentication and authorization capability.
So currently in this example where microservices A wants to call microservices B.
So that's why I just put an authorization box here in the microservices B.
So before even allowing the microservices A to access it, it first authorize it.
What else.
We need a circuit breaker capability.
So what is circuit breaker capability is that let's say you have microservices one.
And uh you want to invoke microservices two.
Now let's say that in the circuit breaker capability like you are calling ten times and all ten requests
fail.
So with the circuit breaker capability, we can control that.
Hey, from the 11th or let's say that for one minute we will not even invoke the microservices to anytime
you want to invoke microservice two, it itself says that no fail.
Okay, after one minute it will again allow.
Or you can say that open the circuit so that you can allow invoking the microservices too.
So definitely you need circuit breaker capability.
Right.
If uh generally if you you might have heard of Hystrix in Spring Boot.
Right.
So that is nothing but provide a circuit breaker capability.
So definitely you need this circuit breaker capability also.
Okay.
What else we need.
We need retry capability.
Also retry capability means if microservices A is invoking microservices.
B this request got failed.
But sometimes what happens is it is an intermittent issue.
Means, uh, if you retry it, it might pass.
Generally if you see that for x these are validation errors.
Validation errors.
These are not retry.
You cannot retry this no matter how many times you will retry.
You will always find this validation error.
But there are certain called five error which is generally retrievable means something.
Internal error has come.
Maybe it could be a temporary issue or some other issue.
But sometime by retrying it this might get passed.
So sometimes do microservices do retry.
But we need to build that capability.
So you need that retry capability also.
So now here if you see one more yellow box got added what else deployment strategy.
So there are different deployment strategy.
If you are following my other channel where I am covering the concept in ten minutes.
I have already covered canary red, black and blue green deployment strategy.
So let's say that what is canary deployment is let's say that this is microservices one and this is
microservices two.
But now you are in the process of deploying a new manifest in the microservices two.
So now let's say that there are two manifest available for microservices.
Two this is old manifest and this is the new manifest.
So now when the new like out of 100% traffic, you want 90% traffic to go into the old manifest itself
and 10% traffic, you want to go to the new manifest component microservice instances.
Then what did happen is it is generally known as Canary deployment.
Okay.
So canary is just you can say that a way to validate your new manifest and gradually you increase this
number 20, 30, 40 till your old manifest instances become zero and the new manifest instances become
100.
Okay.
So this is also controlled through load balancer.
So means whatever the client side load balancing capability you have you also need the support for deployment
strategy.
So you have to build that technology also in your client side load balancer deployment strategy.
Okay.
What else.
Telemetry capability.
So when I say telemetry it means we need to collect data which will help in analysis and monitoring
of a component.
Okay.
What all APIs are getting a traffic slash API slash.
Let's say this is my API user slash API slash, uh, something, uh, payment something.
Okay, so this is getting, uh, let's say one lakh traffic day wise, minute wise, r wise.
So all this capability, you have granularity level, so you have all this data.
So I'm for payment I am getting 50 K traffic per day.
The latency of each API is that let's say that one second here we have let's say two seconds.
So you need all this data.
And also you want some samples okay I want this traffic I need some samples okay I want to see the logs.
Who will help telemetry capability.
So it collects all the data right.
Which ultimately helps in analysis and monitoring of a component.
So now let's say that microservices A is invoking microservices B then definitely microservices B also
have to keep recording whatever the call is coming, whether a failure call, whether a success call,
whatever it has to record it.
Okay.
So it has to record for latency, for error rate, whatever the traffic, etc..
So it has to record all these things.
So this is another important part.
And that's why one more yellow box.
So now here if you see just for two microservices to communicate microservices A to microservices B,
what all things required 123456 and also this deployment strategy seven total seven things you required.
And there might be more like but at least this is required.
Then only you would be able to answer in an interview.
Yes.
Now I would be able to communicate with microservices B properly.
Definitely.
The question would be any better solution?
Yes, service mesh is our answer.
Now check this diagram.
So now I will take an example of Kubernetes.
So here if you see from a API gateway when a request comes it checks with the service discovery request
goes to a particular application load balancer.
Now in Kubernetes.
Now from this application load balancer the request goes to a particular instance.
So in Kubernetes each instance is generally known as pod is inside a pod right.
So there could be a multiple pod and each pod host and microservice instance.
So now let's say that this is microservices one or microservice a instance.
So here in this service mesh right there is one sidecar proxy is also added in the same pod in the same
pod.
And when I say proxy it's because every request which goes out of the microservices one and microservices
and any request which goes inside microservice one instance.
Also it intercepts it has the capability to intercept.
That's why it is known as sidecar proxies.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that if your microservices one has five instances.
So with all five instances you have this individual sidecar proxies respectively.
Okay.
So now I am considering only one that only one pod.
Similarly there can be multiple pod n.
So each pod has one instance of a microservice and also the sidecar proxy.
Similarly microservices two okay, it has multiple pod pod one to pod n, and each pod has a microservices
two inside, uh, instance and the sidecar proxy.
So now here, if you see that right, this sidecar proxies can directly talk to each other.
Can directly talk to each other.
Okay.
And this is known as data plane.
Okay.
This is known as this side is known as data plane.
But there should be somebody who need to control this.
So there is something called control plane.
Okay.
So we have seen so many, uh, things.
Right.
Uh, load balancing.
Then second we see the service discovery.
Third is like authentication authorization.
Uh, fourth is like deployment strategy.
Fifth like, uh, circuit breaker.
Sixth is like retry, and seventh is like telemetry.
So all these capabilities, you can say that the sidecar proxy has it.
Okay.
Load balancing capability.
It has it has circuit breaker capability.
It has retry capability.
Right.
And uh, everything it has so it has load balancing capability.
So it also has a deployment strategy capability also.
So this sidecar proxies has all these logics and we can control it through this control panel.
So here first we have is configuration manager.
So configuration manager read the configuration from user.
I can provide let's say yml file okay.
Or maybe there are some UI.
Also we can provide the configuration.
Hey I have let's say that enable uh enable circuit breaker capability.
Let's say I'm saying true.
Yes I want circuit breaker capability.
You enable it circuit breaker.
Whenever there is a subsequent failure, you want to break it.
For how many minute?
Let's say one minute.
I'm just saying for example.
Okay.
You want retry?
Yes.
True I want retry capability.
Retry for how many times?
Let's say three times.
So all this configuration it can accept also yml file and also from maybe UI are also possible which
accept the input from a user.
So configuration manager validate.
Validate this configurations which is coming from user and make sure that it is properly understandable
format.
Okay.
So once the format of your configuration is uh right configuration manager forward this to traffic controller.
So this traffic controller, what it will do is it will pass this to the sidecars actually.
Okay.
So it will pass this information to the sidecars.
Hey.
Yes this is all the configurations and all.
So now sidecar proxies already has this capabilities.
Now it will just use this configuration to determine okay you need this capability okay.
And for this uh this much minute you want me to break if there is a subsequent failure.
So it work properly using those capability.
Then there is something called security manager.
Security manager is, uh, helpful for providing authorization, authentication and this thing.
So security manager also keeps.
Providing the data to the sidecar proxy regarding all those authentication authorization thing.
So let's say that two side proxies can communicate directly with each other okay.
So when they are communicating with each other it's uh properly encrypted okay.
So encryption may be required.
Public key and private key.
So how they will share this public key.
The security manager helps that okay.
So security manager helps that.
So let's say that this is the microservices to sidecar proxy.
So it generates uh its private key.
Let's say generated private key.
Now what what it will do is it will generate its private key and also has public key which it want to
share with the another sidecar proxy.
So security manager, it will take help from the security manager.
Hey, this is my public key.
Can you help me to get a TLS certificate also?
Right.
So TLS certificate, you know that we can have a public key attached.
And also I think by, uh, properly signed, which give you a properly authentication that.
Yes, this certificate belongs to microservice two only.
So it give, give us an identity.
So when the request goes to this sidecar proxy, it knows that this is coming from this, uh, this
microservice to okay.
And this certificate also has a public key.
So whatever the request which is coming encrypted, it can decrypt it also and also authorization whether
this, uh, microservices.
Services.
Microservice A has the authority or permission to access your API or not.
So all this information security manager can configure right and it properly time to time share with
the sidecar proxies.
And then we have telemetry which works on pull and push method A pull method is telemetry.
Time to time check with the sidecar proxy and keep on collecting the data about the traffic.
Okay.
And in the push is like sidecar is pushing the traffic.
Uh, the metrics to the telemetry generally, in my understanding, telemetry.
Most of the works on the pull sidecar do not push it.
Telemetry time to time.
Keep on fetching the data from the sidecar proxy.
Okay.
And from this telemetry, we can create a different dashboard observability dashboard through which
you can check your metrics.
Right.
You can check the latency and everything.
So one question might come to your mind that hey.
So now let's say that when microservices A has to talk with microservices B, so does sidecar proxy.
When are they not making a network call here now.
So with the control panel.
So no.
So this control uh, this talk or exchange of information between control plane and data plane does
not happen in a real time whenever the request.
So whenever there is any configuration change, then only it puts the data to the sidecar, right.
But with every request they do not make a network call.
One famous service mesh is Istio, the sidecar proxy, which we have mentioned in Istio.
It is known as envoy, the configuration manager, which validate the configuration which we get from
user.
It is known as galley, The traffic controller, which takes care of, uh, putting this information
to sidecar.
Proxy is known as pilot in Istio.
And the security manager known as Citadel.
Okay, so different naming, but the functionality is generally the same.
And also, one more thing before we cut off.
Now let's say microservices a want to talk with microservices B earlier you used to have URL and port
number.
Now do you need that.
No.
Now it will just say that hey I want to talk to microservice B, that's all.
You just give the application name sidecar proxy here will uh here we also have one like in the configuration
right.
It has the service discovery configuration also service discovery configuration also.
Okay.
So sidecar proxies generally has this information which is provided through configuration manager and
traffic controller.
So sidecar proxy.
Now it's load balancer.
Use that service discovery data.
Find out a best instance to forward it and just forward it to the another microservice B okay.
And it's sidecar proxy intercepted and then forwarded to the microservices B okay.
So first thing is there is no network call between microservice one and sidecar proxy.
It's just an interception.
So whatever the requests going out of microservice one sidecar proxy automatically intercept it.
So you don't also need to integrate with sidecar proxy.
So with this Kubernetes pod it's work out of the box.
So if you have any question with this we can discuss further.
But this is very good.
Uh interview question and also for understanding purpose I like this very question uh much okay.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- How DNS works? | System Design of Domain Name System ---

Hey guys, and welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today in part we are going to cover the Domain Name System.
It's sometime looks very easy.
But at the same end if you go in depth it becomes a little complicated also.
So let us start without wasting any time.
So the first thing very basic is what is IP address.
IP address is a unique numerical label assigned to each device connected to internet.
So consider them as an address so that any other device can locate them over the internet.
So you already know IPv4 and IP v6.
So these are two kind of addresses which is assigned to any device which is connected over the internet.
What is domain name.
So domain name.
It's a human readable and friendly address used to identify a device on the internet.
So one point we are saying that device has a unique numerical label, let's say 170 2.3, 2.4.8 something.
So it's very difficult.
It's not human readable and it's not easy to remember if there are multiple devices you have to communicate
with.
So the more easy and readable, friendly way for human is assigning a name to them that is known as
domain name, like google.com, amazon.com, then what is DNS?
DNS is nothing, but you can say a mediator, which helps to translate the domain name into IP addresses
because over the internet device only understand this IP address.
Nobody understands this amazon.com google.com.
So some system is required which translate this name to IP address.
And that's where DNS comes into the picture.
So this is all okay, right?
One liner is good, but how?
How actually it does this thing that is more important.
So currently there are two approach recursive and iterative.
I will tell you both.
But before even going to the first part which is recursive, let's see this one.
So whenever let's say you are typing W-w-w-what concept encoding.com.
And generally we don't write dot at the end, but it's also there implicitly it added.
So consider this like a hierarchy dot.
Then you have.com.
Then you have.
Concept and coding.
And then you have w w w okay.
If you go from bottom to up then your complete address would become there like w w w dot concept coding.com
and then this.
So each one has like some different organization.
Take a like responsibility.
So this part this the first dot is known as root.
The second.com is known as top level domain.
Okay.
This is known as top level domain.
This is known as root.
And the concept and coding generally this is known as second level domain.
And the last w-w-w is known as sub domain.
Sub domain okay.
And combining this concept and coding.com is known as domain name.
Generally when somebody says hey what's your domain name.
I would say concept and coding.com.
But if somebody asks me hey what is your FQDN Fxn fully qualified domain name.
Then I would say full from subdomain to root.
Okay.
Now with that being said, let's go to the recursive approach.
So let's say you are currently at your browser and you want to talk to W-w-w-what concept encoding.com.
What would happen.
So at every system OS level there is a DNS client available already which is generally known as stub
resolver.
So what.
Whenever you type anything the first part is it checks its local cache.
Hey does concept and W-w-w-what concept encoding dotcom?
I have a IP address of it.
Yes or no?
Okay, so the first part is check the local cache and in your system you can do it ipconfig slash display
DNS so you will see what all this your stub uh, stub resolver DNS client.
Currently hold the DNS information in its cache.
So before I go, proceed further, like after the cache hit or cache miss happened, let's first understand
about this, uh, little bit about each DNS record.
So this each one is known as one DNS record DNS record.
Let's see in one DNS record what is there.
So one DNS record has below main information.
There are so many information but these three are the main one which we have to focus.
The first one is record name.
It contains your domain name or subdomain name.
Then you have CNAME record.
CNAME record is nothing but a canonical name stands for canonical name.
It is used for alias.
Okay, we can map one domain to another.
For example w w w dot.
Google.com.
I can whenever somebody type this I can also move it to google.com.
If somebody writes blog dot google.com I can again move it to google.com.
Okay.
Whether you type w w w or you directly write google.com, all traffic will goes to the same google.com
only even though you write blog dot google.com.
Again the traffic goes to google.com.
So this is nothing but an alias.
This is nothing but we are creating an alias okay.
So canonical name is used to create alias.
And we can map one domain to another.
Mostly use this subdomain only.
We can't create like hey w w w dot google.com.
If somebody type this, move it to amazon.com.
No.
So that would be wrong right.
So it's mostly used at subdomain level like after your domain when you have subdomain right.
So generally this alias comes into picture during subdomain only.
Then last is a a record.
A record is generally nothing but an address record stand for address record.
And it maps a record name to an IP address.
So this is where actually holds the IP address.
Okay.
Whatever the record name you have it has this IP address.
So check this example once it will this three things will get clear to you with this.
So one record name record name.
What I told you whether a domain name or subdomain name.
So whenever you see at the rate internally it's considered as a domain name.
So.
Concept and coding.
Dot name coding.com.
So either you write concept and coding.com or internally when you are writing a DNS record at the rate
is generally considered as you are talking about domain name concept and coding.
Dot com type is one, type is one means it's a a record.
It's not a C name.
It's not an alias, it's an A record.
So mean you can expect an IP address.
So in the A host you will find an IP address okay.
So there is one more record.
Record name is W-w-w I told you that.
And the record name contains your domain name or sub domain name.
So here I am having the sub domain name w-w-w okay.
So what is the type.
Type is five means it's a C name okay.
So when we know that it's a C name means it's an alias.
So definitely there will not be any a address host.
Right.
So there is different called CNAME record.
So what it actually point to whatever you want to point to puts its record name.
So CNAME record I point to concept encoding.com dot actually.
So what would happen is whenever somebody is typing w-w-w dot concept encoding concept encoding.com.
So this record name w w w right.
What would happen is it will say that it's a C name.
And what is the record which actually has to do lookup concept encoding.com.
So somebody has to again go and make a query to this concept encoding.com.
And which is nothing but actually an at the rate.
And ultimately they will get this address.
Got it.
So there could be multiple chain C name Rename points to rename this, rename point to this name, and
ultimately to the actual record a host one.
Okay, so similarly here you are seeing this.
So if you see your ipconfig slash display DNS.
So this is how you will see.
So here if you see this is one record.
Record name is something your domain name okay.
What is the record type.
Record type is five means it's a C name.
You won't see a address host okay.
So there would be a one CNAME record which says that hey.
Connect with this because I am just an alias.
Now this again query has to be made that hey, what is the address for this one?
So actually it's this record name.
Is this what is the record type A means.
It's an actual where you will find an address, address, host.
You will be there.
So address record would be there and it has actual IP address.
So I hope CNAME is clear.
So if I show you just see this one.
So there are so each one is one record.
So this is one record.
This is one record.
This is one DNS record okay.
So don't worry about this I will cover everything.
What is NS and all.
So here first see that A this is your type is a means address host.
What is the value for this one is that at the rate generally means concept encoding.com.
And what is the data it point to see?
Currently I don't having a unique IP address like for my server which is running, I am using website
builder.
Com it's open a page and this page is currently hosted through Website Builder site.
So there would be a IP address for this one.
Okay, if in future I have my own server running right, I will just do an edit and I will change the.
I will put my IP address.
So whenever somebody will put concept encoding.com it will ultimately reach to that my server okay.
Now here if you see that another record is CNAME here.
If you see two records are there CNAME if anybody is writing w-w-w.
So I have told you that CNAME only works at the subdomain level, so means you have already comes to
the level that okay, it's a concept encoding.com.
You have come to this level.
Now after that subdomain there are different subdomains can be w-w-w blog mail dot concept encoding,
dot com blog dot concept.
You can have anything.
Okay so what I have put a name that, hey, if anybody writes if anybody writes w w w concept encoding.com,
then also it's open the same page.
Okay.
So I just pointed it to that.
Hey if this subdomain comes point to concept encoding.com dot itself.
So ultimately this nothing it will again one more query will be hit and it will see that hey what is
the address of concept encoding.com dot which is nothing but a at the rate.
And ultimately this website got open.
Okay.
So first thing again goes back to this.
When browser wants to talk to concept encoding.com the DNS client.
First it checks its internal local cache if no record is found.
If no DNS record is found for this, it goes and check to a DNS resolver.
So this is the second we are making.
So this is the second part.
Now how your system get to know that.
What is the address of DNS resolver.
So here if you see.
If you open the network which you are connected with Wi-Fi or Ethernet, whichever you are connecting,
just open its setting and look for DNS and you will see the DNS server okay.
So this is generally the DNS resolver which is provided by your ISP internet service provider.
If you don't want to use the DNS resolver IP, which is provided by your ISP.
And if you wanted to use custom, let's say Google Public DNS resolver, you can modify it and use 8.8.8.8,
which is a Google public DNS resolver.
Okay.
So using that, uh, DNS resolver, your DNS clients make the second call to the DNS resolver.
Hey, I didn't find any data in my local cache.
This is the DNS query.
Can you help me to find the IP address of W-w-w-what concept and coding.com?
Cool.
So now DNS resolver got the query what it will do.
So now DNS resolver I told you that there are three parts.
So generally we have sub domain.
Then you have second level domain.
Then you have a top level domain and then you have root.
And I told you that each one is managed by some different entities.
So now DNS resolve first it will do is it will check its cache.
It will check its own cache.
So every system maintain its own cash.
Okay.
Before going further.
So now let's say that DNS resolver look at its cache.
They hey I have a IP address for W-w-w-what concept encoding.
No I don't have.
If I have it will return from here.
If no then only after the further query happen.
So now it first goes to the root.
So here the third step comes into the picture DNS resolver.
Now asking the root hey what's the IP address of W-w-w-what concept encoding.com.
And it reached to the root.
Now you can ask a question that how DNS resolver know which route to connect.
What is the IP address of root.
So here if you see all over the world there are 13 root servers A to M only 13 root servers.
Each root server is maintained by one different organization.
Let's say a root server is maintained by Very sign.
Okay.
So their record name is a dot root hyphen server dot net.
And if you go to ina website you will find the IP address of it a host also for this some IP address.
So I haven't added the IP address here just for the space purpose.
But you got it right.
There are only 13 root servers all over the world A to M, and each one is operated by some different
organization.
So E root is operated by NASA.
So G is maintained by US Department.
Similarly different different different.
So what happen is DNS resolver will pick the root which is near to the user which is near to the user.
So now one root domain one root server out of this 13 got the request.
Hey what's the IP of W-w-w-what concept encoding.com.
Again This also maintain its own cache.
If it don't find the data in its cache, say, I don't know what's the IP address of this I don't have
in my cache.
Again, it goes to the next level of TLD top level domain.
So currently there are 1000 plus TLD and it keeps on adding and removing.
So let's say.com.in.io.edu.
Like this.
There are so many TLD.
Okay some new can get added.
So the number varies.
So but I can say that there are 1000 plus TLDs are available.
And root domain also have access to this like root domain.
Maintain this information for each one.
So what happen is root domain says that hey I don't have the IP address for this, but I have the IP
address of the tld.com TLD because I am looking for concept encoding.com okay.
so root domain knows that.
Hey this address somebody might be under of.com TLD.
So even though there are multiple tld.edu.com.n.io root domain will pass the IP address of.com TLD.
This address of this server to the DNS resolver.
Okay.
So now DNS resolver what it will do is it will query again fifth step to.com TLD.
So this is your top level domain.
Hey what's the IP of w-w-w-what concept encoding.com okay.
Now what would happen again.
Same thing.
It also maintain its own cache.
Each server maintain its own cache.
If the data is not present into the cache, then only they will move forward.
Okay, let's say that data is not there.
So each TLD maintains the DNS record for authoritative name servers.
Okay, so now what happens is we have to go and see that second level domain.
Right.
So this is the domain concept and coding.
But the servers is known as authoritative authoritative servers okay.
So now what happens is dotcom knows that okay you are looking for concept and coding.
Concept and coding is.
Owned by GoDaddy.
Let's say so because let's say when I go and purchase the concept and coding from GoDaddy.
So GoDaddy act as a registrar.
In that case you can ask.
Right?
Right.
How top level domain knows that for concept encoding it has to goes to GoDaddy?
Why not to some other, uh, provider?
Why not like Google authoritative server?
Why not Amazon authoritative server.
Why only GoDaddy?
So what happen is generally whenever user apply for a domain like concept encoding.com, let's say from
GoDaddy.
So GoDaddy act as a registrar okay.
And it communicate with the respective TLD registry.
So here I am opting for.com so it will act it.
So GoDaddy registrar act as registrar and talk with.com TLD registry.
And this.com registry is maintained by VeriSign.
So means GoDaddy is now contracted with VeriSign that hey this concept encoding.com.
This is the authoritative servers which would help to resolve it.
And you can pass this information to me whenever somebody is looking for concept and coding domain.
Okay, so with that TLD registry, maintain a record that okay, whenever I get concept encoding, I
have to pass to this authoritative this authoritative servers, which is owned by GoDaddy, which is
owned by GoDaddy.
So I need to pass this to this authoritative servers okay.
So now when.com receives this information, it don't find the data in its cache.
But it knows that okay.
Concept encoding I need to pass to this authoritative server.
Now if I show you when GoDaddy registered itself with.com registry, it passed this to authoritative
servers name servers.
This is also known as authoritative servers.
So tld.com TLD knows this two servers.
This is nothing but an authoritative domain servers.
So any request which is coming to this.com TLD, if it see that, hey, it's a concept encoding.
It knows that it has to pass information to this.
They would be only to resolve it.
And NS is nothing but an authoritative name servers.
So what.com will do?
It will pass the IP address of GoDaddy authoritative servers to the DNS resolver.
So it will pass both NS zero three domain control com NS zero four domain control.com dot.
So it will pass this both the servers to this DNS resolver.
So now it's up to DNS resolver to pick any and invoke.
So here if you see that this so is also get passed.
So which says that primary primary use primary as N03.
But if you don't get an answer from this DNS resolver, then query the secondary one.
Okay.
So so you can say that additional information which provides.
So DNS resolver get all this information from the TLD that for concept encoding.
Now which authoritative server it has to connect to and it will make the next step.
Seventh call to a respective servers.
In this case it's a GoDaddy server and 03. domain control.com something.
So that server will reach it which is controlled by GoDaddy.
Then yes, with the help of this one it able to resolve this.
Now it knows about this all the record it will tell.
Yes this is the IP address and the DNS resolver will return it ultimately to the client.
So here if you see why it is called recursive because from the client perspective it just asks to a
DNS resolver, do you have a IP address?
And ultimately it gets an answer.
But here, if you see DNS resolver is doing so many recursive calls, first it adds it asks with the
root.
If root gives the IP address of TLD, it contact TLD, then it contact authoritative.
So it's a recursive call.
But for client it's only one request and one answer.
Okay, so I think recursive is clear.
And before I goes to iterative I want to also tell you about the DNS zone.
So many engineers get confused with like what is DNS zone.
But first understand this.
Another problem that okay my domain name is concept and coding.com.
But here if you see the subdomain.
The subdomain, what is the control till?
What level this subdomain can goes?
Okay, I can have mail dot concept encoding.
I can have blog dot concept encoding.
I can have admin dot concept encoding.
I can have CD and dot image dot media.
This is again a subdomain.
So this dot concept encoding.com I can have system design, dot resource concept encoding, dot com
etc. etc. so there is no limit like after a particular domain what level you can go currently.
What is the problem with this?
You can say, hey, what is the problem with this?
The problem is here.
Once your authoritative server authoritative server in this one, what are the authoritative server?
Let's say n 03. domain control.com.
This is the this is TLD ptld.
Let's say, uh, dot com this and that.
Hey resolver DNS resolver, you can check with this domain server, which is an authoritative server
and asks for anything about concept and coding.
Okay.
Concept encoding.com.
So this.com has passed that hey you can ask anything about concept encoding from this server.
Now if you see that if I have so many domains internally subdomains mail blog admin dot b dot c dot
e.
So here if you see that this server has to maintain the record for each one record for concept encoding.com
record for blog dot concept encoding, dot com mail, dot admin dot concept and a dot b dot c dot concept.
Okay, so it has to maintain the record for each one.
So this is one problem.
Second problem is that let's say that my mail dot concept and coding is very, very highly requested.
One like so many requests are coming to this one.
So now say that this server become more loaded.
So now you have only one server and zero three which is your primary.
Now there are so many requests are coming for this one.
Mostly for you can say that mail dot concept encoding.com, but for other let's say admin dot concept
encoding.com traffic is very less.
But still only one server is there.
It become bombarded with the traffic.
So what it can do is similarly like TLD it can do offload the traffic that say that hey NS 03. some
server which is your.
Authoritative server.
It can offload the traffic to, let's say, hey, anything you want to ask for blog.
Or you can say that mail mail dot concept encoding.com.
This is your authoritative server, let's say zero five server.
This is authoritative server for resolving this subdomain mail dot.
Now whatever would be a dot mail.
This will take care of it okay.
So it will keep the record itself here.
It will keep the record of all.
But it knows that whenever somebody is asking for mail I have to pass it to this NS zero five.
It will just as soon as the traffic come to this, it will just offload the traffic to this record lookup
and everything CNAME and all would be handled by this server.
So now what we are doing is we are offloading the traffic from our main authoritative server.
So TLD is still pointing to this.
this.com is still pointing to this first authoritative server.
Now it knows that.
Okay, I will take care of blog dot concept encoding.com concept encoding.com.
A dot b dot concept encoding.com.
But anything which comes like mail dot concept encoding.com for mail I have provided this is the authoritative
server.
So this is it will just forward the request to this one and you take care of it.
So each authoritative servers are creating their zone.
Actually this is its zone.
It takes care of this records.
This is its zone.
Let's take care of this record.
So that's where I am saying that if zone is not there, then only one authoritative server which holds
the DNS record, record name, IP address, TTL, etc..
Query for all the subdomains and how many subdomains you can have.
You don't know.
You can have as many subdomains as possible.
And if, let's say any of the subdomain is high traffic, taking your one authoritative server will
get overloaded.
So we can distribute the load by creating more authoritative domain servers, just how we distribute
the traffic between TLD server like.com u u server take care of it dot n u take care of it.
Similarly in.
In use subdomain level we can create more zones here.
Zone one you take care of concept encoding.com mail dot concept encoding uh.com I can create another
zone which takes care of blog dot concept encoding.com.
And this will also take care of us.
Dot Concept encoding, o dot blog, dot concept encoding.com.
And they have different servers.
So now anything which is requesting for blog us dot blog.
So whenever the request comes from TLD here, it don't have to answer this.
What's the IP address of this.
It don't have to resolve.
It will just forward the request to hey this server take care of this blog dot concept US dot dot concept.com
thing called iterative.
So in recursive you saw that DNS resolver is taking responsibility of everything.
But in iterative DNS client is the one.
So first it will check its local cache if data is there well and good.
If no it will call the DNS resolver.
Hey what's the IP of concept encoding?
If it's not there in its cache, it will pass the root domain IP to the client.
Now it's client responsibility in iterative that check each server by its own DNS resolver will not
do.
That's why it's known as iterative.
So root domain will send that hey this is the IP addresses for the TLDs.
You can connect with any one of them.
Then it will connect with TLD.
One of the server.
If TLD cache do not have that data then it will send the IP addresses of authoritative servers.
DNS client will now invoke one of the authoritative server.
And if it is address is there it will return it.
So in short here DNS client is responsible for making a recursive call to resolve the address.
And in the recursive DNS resolver do it for you.
So.
So I hope this DNS part is clear.
If you have any doubt let me know in the comment section we can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- In How many Microservices we should divide Monolithic System ---

Hey guys.
Welcome back.
And this is the question which has been shared by, uh, an engineer over the message that it has been
recently asked to him in his system design round how to divide monolithic system into microservices
and in how many.
Right.
So that is, again, a very kind of you can say that, uh, interviewer is trying to put the interview
in a tricky situation.
How many microservices give me a number.
Right.
So how many microservices.
How to determine.
So first thing first there is like nothing like okay in ten microservices, five microservices, three
microservices.
No, there is no such number.
And uh, there is no such way to determine how much how many microservices.
So I will tell you like how to answer this question.
But let me first tell you what why we want Microservices like, because ultimately, when we are going
to divide the monolithic system into multiple services, like what is our expectation from each services?
Like if those expectations are fulfilled, then only we can say that yes, expectation is fulfilled.
We can consider the one microservices, right?
So why we want microservices?
What is the expectation out of it?
First one would be it should be loosely coupled.
Loosely coupled means if you are updating microservices one.
If you are some doing an update on here, there is no need to update this also.
So they are independent to each other.
The second thing would be like engineers can independently code, test and deploy.
What does it mean is like now you have two microservices.
Microservices.
Microservices two.
They have their own set of engineers.
And it's evolving.
Microservices are evolving independently, right.
So it's deployment is nowhere dependent on this.
It's testing is nowhere dependent on this and vice versa.
Okay.
The third achievement we want to get by dividing into microservices is uh you can say that less.
Communication overhead.
Less communication overhead is means that there should not be any scenario that for each operation or
each small thing, you have to communicate between these two services.
Right.
So more communication overhead means more latency, more complexity, more dependency, which ultimately
breaks your loose coupling.
Okay.
So less communication overhead.
And another which I would say that like, uh, scale independently.
So now again two microservices.
Now let's say this microservice has more traffic than this.
So it can scale independently.
Here I have 100 it's instances.
But this microservice is uh, traffic is not that much.
Okay.
I can have only it's, uh, ten micro, ten, ten instances.
So they should scale independently.
There should not be a scenario that, hey, if you scale this, then also you have to scale this also.
So if you have to do that means somewhere there is tight dependency means if more traffic is coming
here then ultimately this is also calling this much to this so that its traffic is also increasing means
there is some very tight coupling somewhere.
Okay.
So it they should scale independently.
So these are the four things which we have to keep in mind like what we expect from microservices.
Okay.
So now with that being said, now what we what the next process we will take to the interviewer is the
another part of this question that how many microservices, how do you determine while dividing it.
Okay.
So if I want to answer this, I will say that I will follow d d d approach.
That is domain driven design approach.
I will use this approach to determine how many microservices are required.
I do not know the number, but with this I can come up with a number.
Possibly.
Okay, I am not saying this is the full proof solution or this is, uh, something will 100 per 100%
of the time will work.
There might be, like many engineers, I will just tell you before even going into domain driven design,
many engineers have their different like, okay, uh, focus on the DB, uh, DB per service or shared
service.
Based on that, you can go some, some says that configuration wise, uh, take out the configuration
separately means you need one configuration for that.
Read write.
Uh, you need a different service for read different service for.
Right.
So you need two service uh, technology wise technology wise, for example, uh, front end, back end
and uh, your data access layer.
So these are three technologies.
This is UI, this is uh, backend, maybe Java.
This may be some, uh, MySQL or something.
So different technology means you need different microservices.
So you need three microservices here.
So see it's just a different way how you want to pursue the question and where you want to take uh,
in whichever area you are more comfortable take in that one.
But according to me, domain driven design approach is very suitable for answering such type of question.
Why?
Now let's see that now let's say that you have a monolithic service.
Now we wanted to divide into this.
So domain driven design approach says that first step.
Domain understand your domain.
Understand this.
For example I am taking one domain let's say chat application I am taking one domain as chat application.
So this is one domain.
Another domain could be e-commerce.
Okay, so pick any domain but you have to understand it properly.
It's user requirement everything.
Then only the second step can come into the picture okay.
So the first step domain driven design says that understand your domain properly.
Sit with the domain experts, sit with the users, understand it, and first clarify what the problem
statement you want to solve.
So here I would say that my domain is chat application.
This is generally clear problem statement.
Okay.
The second step here is coming up with sub domains.
Now you have chat application.
Which is a domain.
Now we have to come up with multiple subdomains.
Okay.
Multiple subdomains we have to come up with.
Now question could be what could be the subdomain.
How to come up with this.
Because each subdomain have the capability to become one microservice.
But again how do you determine how many subdomains, what sub what subdomains you have to create.
So for that there is one approach which DD domain driven design follows is event storming.
Okay, so event storming.
So what this approach says that this approach helps to identify the subdomains okay.
So in this one what we do is we we when I say we we means all the expert.
So whatever the domain you are working its domain expert okay.
Not just from the only engineers.
No domain experts.
And you are the decision makers, developers, testers.
And so that's what event storming says that.
So all sit together, do whiteboarding and what they do is first take out all the events.
Take out all the events.
For example, in the chat application, everyone independently thinking like what all events they can
come up with.
For example, I can come up with like, okay, uh, first user is registered.
Uh, then user is registered.
Then you can say that um.
User got login.
This is one event, then message sent then Message delivered.
Uh, then another event could be like, uh.
Message deleted.
Like this.
So these are all events which we can think of, right?
It we might miss.
We it might be, like, not applicable.
Okay.
But in the event storming the first step is all the team member individually come up with the events.
What?
All events can happen in your domain.
Okay, so now let's say that we have come up with this only this five.
But there are possible that we miss something.
So that's what the second step does is sequence it sequence it and try to find missing events okay.
Now if we sequence it now put this in sequence.
Now we have to find out that any missing event.
So now here we can say that okay.
User registered user login.
It is possible that user can log out also from here.
This also can be an event and it can also send a message.
So now here if you see this two things can happen in parallel.
Either can um after logging user can log out also or can send the message.
So what we can do here is we can do like this.
So user.
Registered.
After that what we said that user log in.
After that two things can happen right.
User can log out and message can send this thing can either this or this.
So we can write in parallel.
Okay.
After that what we said this message sent then what is any, any uh, any sequence or any event missed
here.
Message sent is from this message delivered.
And so this is again from the sender perspective there is a message received also.
So message sent.
Then we can say that message delivered and message received could happen in like after this message.
And these two things can happen.
Okay.
And after that message deleted okay.
So anything missed out here like in.
So it's again not a full proof.
But when you're sitting with domain expert, it is considered that we will come up with all the events
here in a proper sequence manner.
And if we missed any into the first step, we should be able to find those step in the second one.
Okay.
So this is the second phase of the event storming that we have a proper sequence.
And by this step we have figured out all the kind of, ah, uh, events which can happen in our domain.
Now, here comes your third step.
Now third step.
Come here is which is known as bounded context.
So this is sometimes become very complicated.
Uh, so I'll tell you a bounded context.
Understand this in the senses.
So bounded means consider this as a boundary.
So this is boundary one.
This is boundary two.
Let's say that and you have one object here.
The context of this object in this boundary might be different from the same object object one and the
same object.
Which is present in this context for this boundary Example, let's say that, uh, you are having,
uh, anything like, uh, pizza, uh, or you can say that, uh, you are having a sandwich.
In a restaurant.
So context is there in a restaurant.
So in this, this is one boundary means that in this boundary for the sandwich, you have a total different
context, for you are ready to pay for it.
For you, it's, uh, like a dish which you will pay and you are ready to eat it.
Okay.
So it is this object, this sandwich object.
In this context, restaurant has a total different, uh, you can say that, uh, its own boundary,
that anybody is ready to pay for it and eat it.
Now, the second context is, like I'm saying, the context here is that garbage.
The same object, the same sandwich object.
Now in the second context is not in the restaurant but in the garbage.
So this is another context.
Okay, so here nobody would be able to pay for it, or even if it is given free, nobody agreed to take
it, right?
Nobody will eat it for sure and nobody will say that it's it has zero value.
Okay.
So what bounded context means even the same thing, but present in two different contexts, considered
as a different boundaries.
They have different boundaries.
So for this one, this sandwich, which is in garbage, considered as a different boundary than the
sandwich which is present into the restaurant, so it is considered as a different boundary.
So there are two different boundaries.
There should not be any dependency between these two.
So now that's what the third step says that identify the bounded context.
Now in this case what we do is once we have a sequence.
Now we say that whatever the logical related events, group them into a one bounded context.
For example.
User register.
User login and user logout.
Okay.
So here what what this event is working on.
What object user.
Okay.
So this user here means something.
Okay.
This user means something here.
Let's say user register user login.
User logout.
So something it uh with authentication.
Authorization.
Some permission.
So this user has certain values.
Certain meaning in this context.
So I would say that this is user management boundary bounded context.
Okay.
Now let's say that another uh what all events message sent.
So message sent.
Message delivered.
Message deleted.
Now here if you see in this case what all these events working on.
So here message is one event this events are working on.
So this message here can have certain meaning like who sent it or content.
Right.
So different.
Different uh you can say that uh, status like Pending.
Delivered.
Deleted.
Okay, so this message has certain values.
Or you can say that certain meaning in this context.
So we can say that it has like a message bounded context.
Okay.
Now similarly we can uh have another is uh here maybe like uh.
Notification something like user notified.
Okay.
Maybe you haven't, uh, open a message.
Right.
But you got notified.
So or user notified or there could more be like, uh.
User.
Notified or there can be different, like email mode notified.
Uh, I was thinking to write an email notified, but I'm thinking let's consider like, notification
and what else event can happen like, uh, but but for now, let's say that user notified happen that
you got a pop up like, hey, you have one new message.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that even they said that user notified, now we have to decide.
Hey this notification event happening on which object user.
Thus user is in the same bounded context or user manage.
So here this object has certain meaning related with authentication authorization.
Uh, what was that?
Permission.
Right.
So it has this particular state or in this context it has this meaning.
But here.
user notified user here is not equivalent to this or not equivalent to this object here.
So and so here it might be like related with uh user maybe like only user ID.
And then after that notification status what is the notification status.
Are not sent sent.
Seen something.
So now here in this case does this user is it the same as what user here on this which this events are
working on.
No.
This user has lot of this.
Uh you can say that properties.
But here this user is only user ID.
So we can't put this event into this bounded context.
So we then we can check.
Hey is there any this user, The, uh, belongs here.
No.
Then we can say that.
Okay, this user can be this notification, like user notified should be in different, separate business,
uh, bounded context.
So give them like a notification bounded context.
Okay.
So you so you got it right.
What bounded context means like there it is a chance that user is even user object is present here also
in the notification.
Similarly user also present during registration.
But at both the point they have a different meaning.
That's the same thing which I said even though it's a sandwich, but in a different scenario, they
are totally different thing, so we should not club them together.
We should keep them separate.
Okay, so just understand this from the microservice perspective.
So we should not merge these two microservices.
Otherwise it kind of a monolithic.
Okay, so now for this simple example.
Now we have a each bounded context.
Okay.
Now the forth steps like you can come up with the microservices out of it.
So now for each bounded context, whatever the objects on which they are working from each of them,
we can consider it as one.
Microservices like user management, microservices.
Here we have message.
So here we can have something like for this bounded context we can have uh message microservice.
Similarly for here we can have notification microservice okay.
And it's also possible that from this uh bounded context there can be multiple events if I'm just saying,
hypothetically, if there is any event which.
Model like on object in which that event is working, that belongs to the same bounded context, we
can create only one microservice for it.
We don't have to create two microservice, right?
So I hope this bounded context concept can be clear with that one.
Okay.
So we group the events together.
So here user register user login, user logout all looks very related.
But what I'm trying to say is that something called user let's say XYZ event.
Currently nothing is in top of my mind, but I'm saying user anything XYZ event, but that user and
this user context is same and who determine the context is same?
Your domain expert who knows the domain like Yes, this is also sharing the same.
It has to be authenticated.
It has to be authorized for this event.
It should have this permission.
Yes.
Then it belongs to the same bounded context.
And we don't have to create a separate microservice for that.
Okay.
So with this process I came up with this three micro services okay.
Okay.
And there might be yes there might be interaction between them because in message we might have uh,
some like what user who sent it.
So maybe user ID is there.
So it might call it.
So that's okay.
That is not violating D-d-d.
Like they can have minimal uh Duplicacy means user ID is also here.
User ID is also here.
So minimal, very minimal duplicacy can be there, but very less dependency should be there.
Okay.
And each one, each microservices which we come up should fulfill this loose coupling, uh, independent
scaling, less communication overhead.
We are not saying zero communication overhead.
Less communication overhead.
Okay.
And final thing one more thing.
There is a concept called distributed monolithic.
We have to save from this sometime.
Let's say that if you are not following D.d.d.
If you are not following D.d.d approach and you are following, I told you in a start, right?
Uh, it's not mandatory to use d.d.d.
But you can follow different ways, like technology wise.
Uh, I think, uh, command query.
Uh, this so for each command means write, each query means read responsibility divided divide the
responsibility based on command query okay.
Configuration.
So there are different ways to divide it.
But what I'm saying is even though you divide this make sure that it is not your distributed monolithic,
distributed monolithic means the same thing.
All the above four points is not fulfilling.
You remember Amazon Prime scenario.
What happened to the Amazon Prime?
Amazon Prime has two service like audio and video.
Two microservices.
Okay.
So it is a good example of distributed monolithic.
Like they have so much tight coupling that it's become a overhead for them.
And after that they move to a monolithic.
If somebody says that, hey, Amazon Prime moved totally from monolithic to microservices.
No, man.
Only these two services, audio and video, they unnecessarily divide this.
And after that it becomes too much overhead between this.
So they decided to merge this two microservices into one or which has both audio and video, and they
find 90% efficiency over it.
They still on a microservices.
But what I'm trying to say is that like there is no bulletproof.
That okay, I come up with, uh, two, three microservices or I have to come up with only two.
I can club this two or not, how to do that?
So there is no silver bullet.
Only thing is, yes, this TDD has given some guidelines, uh, which can be followed to come up with
different microservices.
And for each microservices we can see that, ah, this 4 or 5 points are fulfilling or not.
Uh, there are more to this TDD.
Like there are something called tactical design part of it.
If you want to know in depth, let me know.
I can cover a separate dedicated like, uh, full dedicated video of this DDT.
Okay, guys.
Thank you.
Uh, I hope you will find this useful by.

--- Attacks with Demo | CSRF, XSS, CORS and SQL Injection ---

Hey guys, and welcome to Concept and Coding.
And you already know that in Spring Boot I'm going to start Spring Security.
And to understand it better it's very much essential to understand the common attacks also.
Then only we would be able to understand the importance of spring security.
Okay, so in today's video I will cover very, very important topics with demo like how these attacks
happen and how we can protect them.
Like we can see that also in in detail spring security, how to protect these attacks.
But today let's understand what are these attacks, how it happened with a demo.
The first very important.
And sometimes it's asked in an interview also CSRF cross-site request forgery.
What does it do.
Just see this point.
First user is already authenticated to a site.
Okay let's say that you have one side something.
Let's say Dot com.
You are already authenticated.
Okay, the CSRF attack tricks a browser into making unwanted requests to a site where user is already
authenticated.
So what does it line says that.
So this means that this attack, what it does is that your browser.
So now let's say that for a minute.
This is a session based.
You can say that authentication your browser okay.
Your browser in your cookie has a session stored has a session ID is stored.
Now let's say that when you get some link click here.
And this is link is hosted by some attacker.
Like it's not from a genuine and you somehow attacker tricked you that hey click you click here, then
your doubts will get resolved or something.
And now you clicked here.
Now what happened is, with the help of this CSRF attack, what this attacker will do is it will make
an unwanted request to this site where your already authenticated and your browser will automatically
add the session ID while sending this request.
Okay.
So it will also send this cookie and this session ID browsers generally automatically adds it.
Okay.
This session.
So now when gmail.com request will come let's say it's for accessing some mail.
It will say that yes cookie this session this session is already valid and it will grant the access.
So you are totally unaware of this that hey only you click on this link.
This click is intend to do something else but in the background it initiated one request on your behalf
using and your browser There is adding your session.
So that's what it says, that CSRF attack tricks a browser into making unwanted requests to a site where
user is already authenticated.
Mostly applicable where state and session is managed.
So it's a like a stateful right or session is managed only in that.
So you know right.
There are two types stateless and stateful.
So generally this attack is mostly you can say that happen where state is maintained.
Your cookie in this your state session is maintained right.
So let me show you a demo of this one.
Just for demo purpose.
I'm using a spring boot only.
Don't worry about this.
We will discuss in depth when we will learn Spring Boot security.
But here you just need to concentrate on this.
Your server.
Let's say that your whatever the server you are running either Gmail or either anything bank anything
You have specifically mentioned that.
Hey, what?
No matter whatever the request is, you have to authenticate it.
Without authentication, no request should come to me.
Yes.
Good.
Right.
We have done that.
And you have an end point like where we have to do transfer money transfer, slash transfer.
And if this request get initiated, it will transfer the amount to whatever to whom you have mentioned.
Just a testing purpose.
So now what your expectation from this is like anyone who is calling this API is already authenticated
because I have put into that like any request, no matter any request should be authenticated, should
be authenticated.
Okay.
So now let's see this one.
Step one.
We will also see this in parallel.
What is the step one?
I am making a user authenticated on a server.
Now let's see that.
Now let's first try to get authenticated on a particular server.
So in this case I am running a server on my localhost.
Just assume that it could be anything Gmail Facebook Instagram where you are authenticated.
And we are for now assuming that it's a session based authentication means in cookies some session ID
would be stored.
So let me also open inspect element user and let me put a password.
Don't worry about this how I got this password.
We will cover this into spring security in depth.
So now let's say I am authenticating myself.
Sign in.
So what does happen is here.
If you see that when I try to do a login I got one session.
One session is attached or returned in the cookie and the same session is getting maintained by the
server also Now what is the second step?
Okay.
This see this on red in cookies.
In the response one session got added.
Now let's say that some malicious link to this user is received through email or through any other way,
or let's say just browsing some websites.
And he said said okay, got this link.
So what would happen?
So I have just created one basic HTML where what happen is whenever you click a link here internally,
it will call this transfer API which we have created right to transfer the amount okay.
But here if you see that I am not attaching any cookie or session that your browser will automatically
do okay, browser will add whenever any request is sent.
Send browser adds the session.
Okay so this is the HTML.
Now also let me open the inspect element.
Now just assume that you got some link through WhatsApp, through Gmail or through while browsing.
And somehow you click any malicious link see transferred to attacker.
And here if you see in the request, the session has been added, what is the session ME1N?
It should be the same as this 1MME1N.
So your browser adds the session whenever any request is made from like from your browser.
Okay, so that is where you can say that it's a CSR attack where attacker tricks your browser into making
unwanted requests where user is already authenticated.
I hope that clarifies.
Don't worry about this.
Uh, how this, uh, this one happening.
What I have written, we will see that into spring security.
But for now, you need to understand.
What is this attack?
Okay.
We have seen that in the attack.
Wherever the browser automatically adds the session, which is generally the same as what you got when
you were authenticated, because browser stores it in the cookie.
So how to get protected from the CSRF attack by using CSRF token.
So generally apart from the cookie, if you want to get protected from the CSF attack, there is something
called CSRF token also.
Okay.
So browser you can say that server returns the token in response also.
And this token is, you can say that known only to an authenticated legitimate source.
So as authenticate forms of website only append the CSRF token in the request.
Okay.
So if I am making if I am an attacker I am using this HTML.
I don't know what is the CSRF token, what value I need to put.
I don't know only those who are legitimate source.
They know what is the token and they will only append it so that your server knows that okay, this
request is coming from a legitimate source or not.
The second attack is XSS cross-site scripting.
Very very important.
Okay.
Understand it from a use case where you have a web page where considered as a.
Comments okay.
User one it's comments.
User two it's comments.
Now there is something called post.
You have to post something.
Okay.
And once you post it, it will also be shown here like I have posted.
Let's say my comment it will come.
So for now what exercise does is it allow attacker to put a malicious script into a web page viewed
by other user?
So now let's say that this is the web page.
If you come you also see the comments from different users and you can also post your comments also.
So what if you inside a post instead of writing, you put a script some and then a script would be stored.
Now any other user comes to this web page.
Comments would be shown by user one, user two, and also your comment where you have put a script.
So that script will run.
So commonly used for stealing the session or deform the website.
Okay, I will tell you how we will see a demo.
So for demo purpose I am creating two endpoints.
One is a Get call of this slash exists where it will.
What it will do is it will just load all the comments which are present.
Just return it.
Nothing else okay.
And also you will see that I am using controller not rest controller okay.
Why?
Because I want to render the page.
I want to render the page.
I will see you.
I will show you with an example.
What does it mean?
The second API is post slash comment.
What here?
What it will do is this you are allowed to post anything and that will store it in somewhere in the
DB or somewhere in memory.
And during get call that whole complete list would be shown.
Very simple.
And this is the code I have written.
very basic, so I have used at the rate controller.
And if you are following the Spring boot playlist, you know that.
What is the difference between controller and Rest controller?
Okay, since I am using controller, I am returning access as it will try to load HTML.
It will try to render it.
Okay, so there I have created one dot HTML.
Okay, so now here if you see this get endpoint is like just.
Whenever this is called it will just simply return all the comments.
All the comments.
Right.
Whatever we have and in the post I am just adding a comment.
Whatever the comment, I am coming.
See whatever the comments I am getting in a string directly, whatever the user is putting some script
or something I directly added into my list.
Okay, since in Spring Boot everything is a singleton, only one object is created.
So that's why even if you hit multiple times, it will get stored into this objects only.
Okay, so don't get confused.
Why?
Why not creating every time new object.
So anytime you add a new comment, it will keep on appending to this list.
Okay.
And during get it will simply return all the list.
Okay.
So now let's see.
Step one.
I am hitting slash access okay so here it will render this page.
Here I am rendering this page.
Leave a comment.
And simply you are able to see whatever the script you want to put or comment you want to put.
You can see submit okay.
And all the comments will be shown here.
So let's see okay so here if you see that leave a comment.
Now let's see I am an attacker and I have put script alert XSS attack some any just basic script.
Now once I call this and click on submit, what would happen.
See, let's say attack happen.
There is a pop up comes.
Why?
Because your browser initiated the script itself.
Your browser initiated the script itself.
So when you click on submit, you first click the post API.
This is the post endpoint.
So means this comment got stored.
This comment got stored.
Now let's say any other any other user is coming and to this web page.
So definitely there is a get call happen slash access okay.
And it will load all the comments.
And as soon as this scripted comment get loaded your browser will execute it.
And this pop up comes.
Now you will say that hey what's the problem in this?
So it's not like harmful, right?
It's just a pop up.
Just assume that from this simple script.
What if I change to this one?
I am taking you to some attacker site and just say that this is the attacker link Uri.
You don't even know.
And in the request I just put document.cookie.
You know that now whatever the cookie is present in your browser will get to the attacker.
Now, attacker knows your cookie and this cookie only has your session ID.
Now, wherever you are authenticated where this session ID is applicable, attacker can access it freely.
Totally.
So it is not just like one pop up attack.
You can replace this inside instance.
Instead of simple alert you can change it to like this.
But for stealing your cookie.
Now attacker has your cookie your session.
You will lose the data or the security compromise.
So what shall we do to protect it?
So generally we have to do proper escaping the user input.
So wherever we are accepting the user input we don't know what user is entering.
So we have to take this special characters and we have to properly escape it.
Like this has to be changed to this okay.
So that browser don't treat it as any script which it has to run.
So it will be shown as it is like a string.
So you don't have to worry about that.
Your any script will run okay.
And you have to do proper validations.
What what values are allowed?
What values are not allowed in the like user can use.
So access is clear, right?
There is something called Cors also very important cross-origin resource sharing.
So first of all it's not an attack but more of a security feature which you can enable it or disable
it.
Okay, that it's a security feature that restrict web pages from making requests to different origin
unless allowed by the server.
So here, if you see that, first of all, what do you mean by different origin?
Different origin is like protocol plus domain plus port.
So let's say that for example this your client is sending this.
So this is your server okay.
And request can come from anywhere.
Some let's say that valid clients and some attacker also now server should tell that hey only these
are allowed.
If I get a request from these URLs then only allowed it.
Otherwise I will not entertain it okay.
So that's where like protocol, domain and port, all three should be defined.
So that server knows that.
Yes.
Only if there is a matching request coming from this, then only I will entertain.
For example, client is like https some local 8080 and your server is running on HTTP.
Again it is considered as a different origin, not the same origin.
If it is the same origin, it will no issues.
It will like from the same authenticated user.
Valid client only.
But the problem comes when the like different origin like.
So consider this as.
Use case has a different origin because protocol is different.
Client is running on Https.
Server is running on HTTP.
Again it is considered as different origin.
So means here server has to allow the request from http localhost 8080.
Similarly, let's say port numbers are different.
Then.
Also it is considered a different origin.
Similarly, client is running on sub dot localhost, server is running on localhost.
Then again it is considered as different origin.
So in all these scenarios server has to specifically whitelist this.
So that request can be entertained from here.
And how you can do that by setting access control allow origin.
There is whenever you hit a request you will see this.
In this one we have to set.
So here just don't worry about this.
We will see into spring security.
But here if you see that I am allowing this one course configuration allowed origin list what all is
allowed.
I am putting here so allowed https localhost 9090.
I am allowing only this url for get post put delete purpose.
Okay, and this is the allowed header, so I will allow any request coming from this, but not from
this, but not from this.
So this way you can manage or you can say that it's a security feature.
Like you can say that consider this request like the first CSRF attack.
Okay.
So you can say that course can become the first security gate.
Maybe you CSRF token is required.
That is must.
Okay.
But you can say that this course can become a first line of defense, that if you are clicking on some
of the link and that server, the attacker server is running on some other, uh, different origin.
This is course become the first line of defense that it will not even entertain.
Okay.
Because server has only allowed requests from this itself.
And the last one is SQL injection.
In this one, attacker manipulates SQL query by inserting malicious input into the user field.
So I am creating a very, very simple here.
Let's say that search field.
Now whatever you put search let's say that uh cold drinks.
What if you are using this input and putting into query select asterisk from products where uh type
equals to and this whatever it is coming search value you are directly using whatever user is putting
into your DB query.
So here I can put some malicious, uh, you can say that query which can even like give me the data
which for which I am not even authenticated or even I can delete your DB also or get your DB table name
complete.
Right, so with SQL injection like your DB is not safe even I can get.
What is the table?
What are the column names?
I can delete it or I can access the unauthorized data also from the DB.
So in this example I'm showing this only very simple find API and I am using this.
Whatever the name is given by the user, I am directly putting into the query.
Okay, so now here if you see in my DB currently there are two users.
Okay.
And my query says that whatever the username comes only that would be written if a a a comes only,
that should be written.
But now let's say that what if I put hit the query like this slash find here.
If you see slash find now instead of name I am giving like this slash or one equals to one.
Now directly it will replace here.
So what it will be like user underscore name equals to.
So first this will finish this.
Then it will append this or one equals to one.
And then you have this one which will complete this.
Now your query become this select asterisk from user details where username equals to this.
So it is empty or one equals to one become true.
So it will return all the values in the DB.
You you got it.
Like what happened here I put certain values which is not properly uh, you can say that validated and
used directly into the query.
And I manipulated it such that it returns me the complete data or unauthorized data.
We can also use it to fetch the DB name, table name, and you can also drop the DB also tables also.
So it's very, very important, uh, to get protected from SQL injection and how to protect it.
But we have already seen that in SQL when we covered Jpql right.
By parameterized query we can protect it.
So whatever the name is coming.
Don't use it as it is.
You have to use like this.
Parameterize it.
Okay.
So set parameters so that it would be like not as a considered as a query.
It will be considered as a value string okay.
And then you will get no data.
So because with this name slash or one equals to one nothing matched.
So.
It's safe now.
Okay guys any doubt let me know.
Uh, we'll discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Dual Write Problem | Event Driven Microservices Patterns ---

Hey guys on this side, welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today we are going to see a very very important topic and interview question okay so dual right
problem.
Before I start this one I want to tell you that interviewer will never directly ask you like okay,
do you know what is dual right problem.
No.
What interviewer will do is they will start with first saga okay.
And from saga they will.
Once you explained it, then this would be a follow up question.
Dual right problem okay.
So I will tell you how interviewer will bring you to this problem okay.
Also, if you are looking for creating a personal project then this solving a dual right problem is
a very, very good personal project.
You can say that you can write in your resume and it will give a very, very good impact if you say
that you have implemented the project which has solved this dual problem.
Okay, now let's start it.
So now let's say that in an interview we are sitting and okay now interview asked like, hey, do you
know what is saga pattern?
Yes, we know that in Saga pattern we know that we have multiple services, right?
I have already explained Saga pattern previously in this, uh, playlist, but just for a very, very
quick update in Saga pattern, what we have is we have different services service A, service B service
C okay.
And what happened is service A publish the like in its DB, its do some transaction in the DB, then
it publish an event.
Okay.
That event is consumed by service B and service B do some work in its DB, and after that it might publish
an event even.
And you can say that it's a chain of events, right?
So the same event might be listened by some other service.
And based on that, it might do certain operation in its DB.
And it is possible that it might publish an event to.
Okay.
So you can learn saga pattern.
In this playlist there is a video so you can learn more about it.
But very high level.
Let's say that I started by explaining this.
Now interviewer will say that okay, let's take a step back in service.
A you said that okay, I will publish I will do some transaction in my DB, let's say invoice or let's
say uh, invoice created.
Let's say something.
This is I have created one row.
Invoice row.
Now I have to publish an event.
How you will make sure that both DB and the publishing of an event are inconsistent state.
What does it mean that what if DB right is success and publishing an event got failed?
Then your service V service B might not even know whether.
Okay invoice credit then I have to do something.
I have to let's say send notification.
Then it won't be able to do that.
So now you see that interviewer has bring us to this nothing but a dual right problem from the saga
pattern.
Okay, so if you are preparing for if you are learning saga pattern then don't miss this problem.
Do.
All right problem.
So now let's start the dual right problem occurs when a component needs to persist a change in two different
system.
Let's say db and message broker.
Like Kafka we need to make sure that both are inconsistent state.
There should not be any case when DB is success, but even publishing got failed or vice versa.
So understand from this diagram I have a service.
Now let's say that I have published the message first and it got success.
But while persisting the data into DB got failed.
This is also not consistent.
Now you have already published an event.
If any service listening to this event they might start working it.
But your DB it got failed.
So ultimately the whole request is failed.
Okay, so this is also not a consistent state.
Also this let's say you are first writing into DB and it got success.
But while publishing an event it got failed.
Then maybe you have written successfully in your DB, but what about other services which are waiting
for which are listening to a particular topic?
But they never received an event, so they will again, the whole system is not inconsistent state.
So now question is how we can make sure that might dbe writing to DBE and writing to message broker
is is inconsistent manner.
Both are inconsistent.
Now as an interviewee.
As an interviewee, the first thing which comes to our mind is hey, why not to use two PC two phase
commit in two phase commit, you know.
Right.
We have let's say service A, we have service B and there is some coordinator.
So coordinator first and prepare okay.
And then they respond yes we are prepared okay.
And after that it send commit commit okay.
And then it's wait for this all properly committed.
So we can say that.
Yeah.
Why can't we use two PC by services.
My DB and service B is my message broker.
But there is a problem in that.
What?
Okay, so I told you already.
What?
Two pieces.
I have already covered two pieces also in the same playlist, so you can check it out.
Okay, so now two pieces is not a viable solution for dual problem.
Why?
Because in the dual right scenario involves heterogeneous system like db and message queue.
And you know that many message queues do not even support two phase commit.
Okay, maybe if you are following a DB right or same DB and same application they might have support
this but message queue.
Many message brokers do not support two phase commit itself.
Then how what you will do okay.
Also in distributed system two phase commit is slow.
It will give you high latency.
You know right.
Let's say you have three system or four system.
Now you have a coordinator you have sent.
Prepare, prepare prepare, prepare.
Now you are waiting for them all.
Then you prepare, commit, commit, commit, commit.
And then you wait for their response.
So definitely this is, uh, slow.
That's where the saga pattern comes into the picture service.
A just do its work, send the response back, but publish an event now in the back end, they will continuously
do their work.
Okay, so two phase commit is slow as it provides a strong consistency but waiting for all the participant
to commit.
Definitely it makes it slow.
What if two phase commit coordinator crashes?
What if this coordinator crash itself?
It brings the participant into an inconsistent state.
They will wait for coordinator to recover.
That might again makes two phase commit slow.
I have already explained all are two phase commit in depth in the previous videos.
In this playlist you can check it out.
But the major part, which I wanted to tell you that two phase commit is not a viable solution for dual
write problem because of this.
Because it's slow.
Because message broker sometimes do not even support two phase commit.
So what we will do.
So now once you told two phase commit interviewer will say no it's not a viable solution.
Now what to do.
What is the solution.
How to solve the dual write problem?
Now there comes the event driven architecture patterns.
Okay, so I'll tell you three patterns which can help you to overcome this problem.
And if you are building a personal project, you can pick any one of the pattern and solve this problem
with that one.
Okay.
So this would become a very, very good project.
Also let's start with transactional outbox pattern okay, so transactional outbox pattern in this pattern,
instead of writing in both DB and publishing an event to message broker.
What it will do it first write the event into a separate table called outbox outbox table.
Generally, a new table is created which is known as some let's say outbox outbox table in that one
event is first write into that.
Okay, so now since we are writing into a DB table itself, whatever you are the original main right,
you have to write into DB plus this event.
Both can be in the same transaction.
Okay.
So say this one I have a user service let's say and user service want to create user okay.
So I begin the transaction I insert a user.
And now the event which I have to publish it that also I am inserting into the table outbox table,
user event outbox table let's say.
So I created one event table.
Okay so let me call it a user event table where I am publishing only user events okay.
There could be a two scenarios where you have a common outbox table where no matter user order invoice,
all events goes into this only or you have different different table for like user events order events.
So you publish into that only.
So depend upon your business uh choice.
You can go with any of that.
But for here now let's say user service.
First it created its main task.
It's inserted a user into the DB into the user table, and then it inserted the user event into this
one outbox table okay.
And then commit the transaction.
So now you see that this is one transaction.
One transaction means if any failure happens, the complete rollback will happen.
Now this is one transaction.
So at least now we are sure that the main user insertion is happened.
Plus its event is also there in the DB.
If it is a success, if transaction failure both will not have the record.
Okay.
Now once it is done there we have to write a new poller service.
Or you can also say that a publisher a new poller service which keep on pulling this outbox table.
Okay.
And it's keep on fetching the events which are getting published and not yet published.
Okay.
So the poller services do is it keeps on polling.
Right.
What does it fetch.
The messages which are not yet published and it will do is it will publish to the message broker Publish
the event to the message broker.
Okay, so we have a separate process or poller.
Or you can say that publisher which reads the outbox table and publish the event to message broker in
async manner.
So this way dual write problem is resolved because now we have the data into both the tables and the
event table.
And from that event table publisher can continuously read the unpublished data and it can publish to
the message broker.
And in the publisher we can bring retry logic.
And so that we need to make sure that all the messages which are present into the table is getting published
to.
Okay.
Outbox table is regularly cleaned up as when messages are successfully published.
So now let's say again if you explain this to an interviewer now, interviewer will ask with these challenges
because see, no solution is perfect.
There are challenges on all the solution.
Now first challenges.
Yes.
Extra effort is there to write the polar service.
We have to write this publisher or Polar Service, which continuously have to pull this outbox table,
fetch the unpublished event and has to publish it.
So extra effort is required.
Yes.
Delay between writing an event and publishing it.
So now let's say that when this transaction is completed, then it was first written.
But now you are not sure when this poller or publisher will fetch the event which is written.
Now let's say at 12 p.m. it was written, but are we sure that okay, it will return instantly or it
will return at 12 or 2 p.m., or when we do not know, right.
It's an async process.
So delay between writing an event and the publishing it to the broker might take time.
Yes, this is also its challenge.
The third, a poller, may publish the event multiple times to broker.
What if you have a poller?
Polar one.
And this is your message broker okay.
And it is publishing this message one to the message broker.
And again it sends the message one to the message broker.
Possible.
Right.
Okay.
What if two times it sends the message how to resolve that.
So we need to bring the idempotent logic to the poller okay.
How it is done.
If you I have already covered in the Kafka.
But if you know that in Kafka, what generally happen is when you have a publisher and when you have
a message broker.
In the publisher, you bring something lot.
unable.id.
Equals to true you do that unable dot I dot equals to true.
You need to set this one.
Now once you set this what happen is publisher first take it's publisher ID publisher id.
Now every time this publisher sends a message, this message contains publisher ID and the message sequence
number.
Message sequence number.
So for this message one, the publisher ID is let's say p one.
And message sequence number is let's say message S1 message sequence number one.
So when it's recent or retry.
And let's say that again it is sending message one.
What it will do is it will append it's.
ID publisher ID, let's say P1, and since the message has a sequence number, so it again sends message
sequence one only because the same for each unique message the publisher generates one sequence number
okay for different.
For message two it would be message sequence two some different number okay.
So Kafka Broker depend on this publisher ID and message sequence.
And it knows that this is a duplicate request.
I already have it into my topic so it will ignore one.
Okay, so this problem can be resolved.
If interviewer asks this problem, how do you how do you resolve the duplicate?
Yeah.
The first thing is this.
Now another thing again, see this is a very big topic.
Like interviewer can uh, stuck you in multiple.
So now we were talking about one publisher.
What about if you have two publisher or two polar, let's say polar one.
Polar two.
Okay.
You have two polar and you have message broker.
Now polar one is publishing one message M1.
This is also publishing one message M1.
Now how do you resolve the latency will enable dot idu potency will help.
Will this help?
No.
Because this message has publisher ID let's say one.
This has publisher ID let's say two.
Okay.
So now message broker don't know whether these are unique or not.
And you know that in Kafka we have something called topic.
Topic has partition p0 p1 okay.
So Now you don't know whether these two duplicate is.
So both goes let's say here M1 which is from process ID one.
And here again M1 got which is got process ID two.
Now how you would resolve that.
Now let's say there is a consumer.
Now consumer reads it.
It's read M1, M1.
Now what will it process.
Duplicate messages.
How do we resolve that.
So we have to bring consumer side hydro patency okay.
So in this scenario consumer should also have an added patency logic.
So with each message has some unique ID.
Let's say we have put some uh let's say if it is a user let's say user ID something unique, user ID
is there with the message.
So this consumer can put an ID like okay, this user id I have already processed Okay.
If it is not a user ID, just say that certain unique event ID okay.
So from this outbox table, when this record is fetched, this message is fetched.
Let's say this has some unique event ID something okay.
So with that message that unique ID goes and then this consumer puts checking on that unique ID itself.
So this message one also has the unique ID.
This message one also has the unique ID.
So now consumer knows that okay now I already have one.
So other I have to mark it as ID pattern okay.
So this one also we can answer again this one is something very very important.
Events might be published out of order if different poller picking event parallel.
So consider this one this ordering issue.
Now, since we are writing into the DB and publishing an event to message Broker.
Okay, we are publishing an event to Message Broker.
We need to make sure and let's say the sequence of operation is let's say creation.
Uh, then let's say that updation and deletion.
This is the sequence of operation.
And the three events got published.
Okay.
So first creation, then updation and then deletion.
Okay.
So three events got published.
But the ordering how we make sure that the message broker maintains the order.
What if there is something called notification service.
What if this notification service got deletion message first and it will say that hey deleted and then
after it get created event and then it say that hey, send a notification.
Now it created the consumer will get say hey what?
First it got deleted, then it got I got a created message.
That is something very, very important ordering of an event okay.
How to do that before.
To understand that right you need to understand let's say take an example of Kafka.
In Kafka you have partitions, you have topic.
Let's say A you have partition P0.
P1 okay, so I have already explained in Kafka video that whenever you are publishing a message, there
are three ways.
One is you put a key to a message.
You put a key to a message, okay, based on that key it will goes to either P0 zero or p one.
Okay.
So a hash would be converted.
A hash would be created out of it like mod number of partition something.
So that it will try to put this message into one particular partition.
Another is that you assign that what is the exact partition you wanted to put.
Let's say I wanted to put into partition zero.
So it will always put the message into the same partition.
And another way is that you don't provide anything.
You don't provide key.
You don't provide partition.
Then it will place.
You can say that randomly inside either partition zero or partition one, wherever there is a space
okay.
Or in a round robin fashion.
So there are three ways.
And Kafka says that if there are one publisher and one partition Order is maintained.
Order is maintained.
What does it mean?
You have one publisher.
Okay.
And you have one partition.
Let's say partition zero.
Then it says that if the producer is publishing 01234, like kind of this messages, then in the partition
it will go like zero, one, two, three, four.
Like this only.
Okay.
So this Kafka guarantees ordering in a particular partition.
But if there are more producers okay.
And you have, let's say only one partition.
And this publisher zero.
Publisher.
Publisher zero is publishing, let's say 012 and publisher one is publishing, let's say three, four,
five.
But and they both are putting into the same partition.
Now what if producer one goes first?
So three four, five and then it will goes to 012.
The order maintained.
No, the order is not maintained.
So it should be like 012345.
But now here if you say it is out of order, events are out of order.
So Kafka guarantees order only when there is one producer and one partition, all the data from that
producer goes into same partition.
Okay, then order is maintained.
But if in case there are multiple producer or multiple or multiple producer producing into the same
partition, or multiple producer producing into the different partition.
Now let's say this one put zero, one two.
Here it put three, four, five okay.
Now the consumer is consuming it from this topic.
What is it?
Consume this first three, four, five and then zero, one, two.
So now the responsibility comes at consumer side to buffer then to sorting.
Then it knows.
So but Kafka do not guarantees the order.
It only guarantees the order.
One producer is only publishing into one partition.
Otherwise order is not guaranteed.
So in case you want a strict ordering right, then you have to use something Kafka streams.
Or there might be different approach, but Kafka Stream is something which I can explain later.
It's a very big topic.
So what Kafka Stream does is even though there are multiple producers, multiple producer, multiple
partitions, no matter what, even if there are multiple producers, multiple partitions, also Kafka
stream what it does is it do repartition It do.
Or you can say that reordering.
So it it tried to do a proper ordering like 012345.
It reads the data from all the partition.
Right.
This particular let's say that message, uh, let's say that it is order events.
This topic is order events, let's say.
So for this topic it will read out all the partition and then it will try to bring it in order proper
orders.
Okay.
So Kafka Stream again is a big topic.
Uh, maybe I'll explain it to the next part, but through this we can bring everything into an order
and then consumer can read in an order fashion manner.
Okay, but this is not a simple solution out of order issue, okay?
Because there can be multiple pollers.
We can't rely on one poll.
We can't rely on one partition.
We have to have a different partition.
So out of order is something which is serious problem which has to be resolved.
And that's where Kafka Stream comes into the picture.
What else problem is there?
What if poller not able to publish the event to a message broker itself?
So you have a poller.
This is your outbox table.
This is your poller and this has to publish an event to a message broker.
What?
It's not able to publish it.
Okay.
How to resolve it.
Like retry.
We have to bring a retry mechanism.
Exponential backoff and jitter I've already explained what it is.
And after retry, if all retry failed, you can put the message into the failed event table and depend
upon how your outbox table is used.
Let's say that you have a row in that one.
You have this event which has status something.
Okay.
Then let's say currently it's in progress, but not yet published.
Successful.
So if all retry failed, right, then you can change it back to, uh, you can change it back to like,
uh, pending, like it is not in progress.
It has yet to be picked up.
Or if there is, if you're not maintaining any status, okay, then you have all the retry finished.
Then you can put this event or message into a another table, let's say failed events okay.
And from there we can check why it failed.
So depends upon how you are building the logic.
We can discuss on that one with the interviewer that okay, we can build a retry logic for sure.
This poller or publisher can do a retry logic and if all retry failed, depending upon how our outbox
table look, we can either keep the event into there itself so that, uh, next time it will get picked
because it is not yet published or it we can move it to the failed event table.
Okay.
So that is also can be handled and outbox table can grow.
We should to we should clean up regularly because you have an outbox table.
Lot of events comes into this one.
If you don't clean it up it will like uh make the query difficult as the size increases.
So it the good strategy is the two one after every message or event published successfully.
Clean that message or there should be a batch job like if, let's say after one hour, whatever the
events got published, I will delete all those in a single shot.
So depending upon the business requirement, we can just pick any one of the solution and resolve it.
Okay, so mostly everything has a solution for the challenges.
But interviewer might put you these challenges which we have to explain that we can overcome with this.
Okay.
Understood.
The transactional outbox pattern.
Then we have listen to yourself pattern.
This is very very similar to outbox only.
So I would say that just a variation of transactional outbox pattern.
Because here what happen is you have again user service.
Now let's say it has uh it has to do let's say create user and it has to write a user event something.
So in that what it will do is it will first write only user event.
It don't write create user.
Now it only publish.
It only creates an event into an outbox table into an outbox table.
So first it only create user event.
That's all.
Let's say user creates an event insert user event into the outbox table and commit transaction.
Okay.
This is not created yet.
Now again, same like our transaction outbox pattern.
There is a poller service.
This poller service will read an event.
Okay.
Then it will publish to a broker.
From that broker it will.
Consumer will listen.
Okay so one of the consumer is this service also user service.
Generally the daemon there is generally the same component daemon application.
So that will also listen to insert user event.
And then it will write into the DB.
Then it will write into the DB.
That's why the name listen to yourself.
Okay.
So it first created just a insert user event.
But it didn't write actually into this.
It first write into the event.
The same same flow poller service.
Query the outbox table.
Publish to message broker from message broker.
Multiple consumers let's say notification consumer.
Other consumer.
Listen.
Similarly, one of the consumer is this service daemon application itself.
It listens this event and now writes to DB.
So it has all the challenges which transactional outbox pattern has.
But additionally it has one more challenge which is that what if get calls comes before event is published
and consumed.
Now let's say that I have.
So here if you see that user service it write into the outbox table.
Insert user okay.
But here in the user user table currently it's not written.
Now from this outbox table, poller has to read it and it has to pass to message broker from there some
user service daemon application will listen.
And it has to right here.
But let's say currently it's not yet happened.
It's not yet happened.
And what if get call comes get now?
Currently data is not even there in the user table.
How you will fulfill the Get request.
Because first time when you did insert okay you send to the like response success.
But internally in the async manner it is not yet put into your table user table.
Now if get call comes how you will fulfill that request.
Data is not there into the DB yet.
So that's where what we'll do is we will do go for write through cache technique.
Okay.
So here what it will do is user service put into the DB begins the transaction.
Then it put a event into the outbox table here.
Commit the transaction.
Okay.
Till in user table.
It is not written.
Now it will also write the data into the cache like Redis okay.
Now in the meantime poller service will get the event from this outbox table.
Publish the event to message broker.
But let's say before daemon application, listen to this uh, insert user event.
A get call comes a get call comes.
So what it will do is it will get called.
First try to read from reddis or cache.
Now it has the data.
So response will go from there itself.
It will not try to look into the user table.
Got it.
And after let's say two three minutes daemon application got the event it right into the DB.
Even if cache got expired, Like let's say data is not there.
Any get request come data is not there.
It will now goes to the user table.
Now the data is present it will fulfill it.
So this is right through caches.
One of the solution uh for listen to yourself in case get calls comes instantly after just post operation.
And currently the events or the data is not written into the main table.
So got this point.
And it has all other challenges which is same as transactional outbox pattern also.
Then there comes last transaction log tailing pattern.
So in the above two solution, one thing is uh that we required a outbox table.
But in the log tailing pattern we don't need to create an outbox table.
There is something feature called change data capture.
Change data capture.
So there are tools already created like Debezium.
Okay.
So this read the database table locks database logs to detect changes.
So now let's say you have a MySQL or Postgres.
Whenever you do insert or update or delete anything a log is a log file is created.
Okay.
Similarly for Postgres a log file is created.
So there is a tool called like debezium which read this log file.
So insert there is one event for update.
There is one event for delete.
There is one event in the sense I mean log.
There is one log file log data for insert, update, delete.
Likewise.
So Debezium is a tool which is known as.
You can see the change data capture.
So it is continuously looking at this log file to determine if there is any change happen into this
table.
Right.
For each table you can say that there is a like ah, any change happens to that table goes into the
log file for that particular database.
Now here if you see that you have a service you begin the transaction.
You let's say try to do insert into a DB okay.
You commit it.
When you commit it there would be a transaction log would be created.
A transaction log would be created.
Whether you have done an insert log or update log something, it is done.
Now there is something tool like CDC tool.
Or you can say that uh, which is like a debezium.
External tool or some DB like Cockroachdb internally has a built in CDC tool, right?
You don't need external software.
External tool.
So what uh, this tool we can configure that read from this logs file and any changes anytime you change
a event in this log either insert update delete, whatever you are interested in.
Publish an event to a message broker.
We can configure that.
Okay.
Now here if you see we don't need any outbox table.
We are relying on a log file.
Okay.
And there are uh change data capture tools which read this log file and we can configure that okay.
We are only interested in insert.
We are only interested in update okay.
Whenever insert happening on this table, whenever update is happening on this table read it and publish
an event.
But again, it's not.
There is like this is not a perfect solution.
There are again challenges to it.
Duplicate challenges there.
What if CDC tools send to same event twice?
Possible.
Right.
So again you need to be handling mostly consumer side handling is required at this point of time.
Consumers are handling is required.
Ordering issue is also present.
Same thing.
You can have multiple instances of CDC tool which are reading this transaction logs.
Okay.
Then multiple instances kind of they are they are now act as a producer.
Now they are going to put into partition either one partition or multiple partition.
So definitely ordering issue will come because Kafka do not guarantees it.
Then we have to use either Kafka Stream or some other way to maintain an order.
Okay, but it's possible.
Okay.
High latency.
Why high latency?
As CDC tool, read the database logs.
So our latency now depends on how fast DB writes the logs.
Now let's say that you commit the transaction but the logs is written instantly.
Are you sure?
Because in some DB they follow a batch batch wise logic like okay, once I get 100 updates or 100 insert
then I will 1 in 1 shot.
I will put it into a log file.
So now your latency depend like how fast your database are changes put into the logs.
Some unnecessary events get published too.
Let's say that in this log file comes everything you try to insert.
You try to update, you try to delete, but you are only interested in insert if you don't do a filtering
properly, you might get insert even plus also let's say update event.
So unnecessary events get published too.
You have to have a proper filtering logic in your CDC tool that only insertion logs.
You only read it no other.
Okay, so that is extra thing.
You have to make sure.
Okay.
So these are the few things which is required to solve the dual write problem.
And I told you how interviewer takes you from saga pattern to this.
And for each if no matter which solution which pattern, you will say there are challenges, which interviewer
will jump into it and we have to discuss on those challenges.
Well.
Okay guys.
So anything any question, please feel free to comment.
We can discuss more but that's for today.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Service Discovery Introduction ---

Hey guys, and welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today in microservices topic I am going to cover a very important part is service discovery.
Okay.
So in microservices service or component are created and deleted dynamically.
We can know that right.
So let's say our instance is itself.
Let's say we have our microservices order.
Definitely in microservices one of the advantage is that we can have as many instances based on the
traffic, but these number keep on changing.
If traffic is more, I can spawn more instances.
If traffic is less, I can reduce the number of instances.
So instances are created and deleted dynamically.
We cannot hard code the URL of a particular instance.
It's not scalable and not feasible.
So till now while we seen Rest template Rest client fan client order service is making call to product,
service and everywhere we have hard coded the URL, so it's okay for the testing perspective.
But in production we never hard code these URLs, right?
So in above example, order service has hard coded the URL of the product service.
And it is okay till we have only one instance of product service.
If you have only one instance then it's okay.
You can hard code it.
But in case if you have multiple product service instance, right.
And which is very very possible.
Right.
Let's say in this scenario.
So I have instance one, instance two instance three all have different your IP address and port number
all has different IP address and port number.
But if you have hard coded the URL your traffic will always goes to one of the service only always goes
to one of the service only.
Okay.
And it is also possible that a particular stance can be removed, but since you have hard coded it,
you will try to connect to an instance which is removed.
Then you will face connectivity issue, right?
So there are a lot of challenges like first is single point of failure.
Single point of failure is is hard coded instance of product service goes down order service will not
be able to communicate with other instance.
That's what I told.
Like if you have hardcoded it and I have removed this instance, then you won't be able to communicate
it.
So it's a single point of failure.
No load balancing.
So even though I have three services, since you have a hard coded it every time the traffic goes to
this instance only.
Even though my these two other instances are sitting idle okay.
Tight coupling.
So because of hard coded URL in the order service, there is a tight coupling between order service
and product service.
Now let's say that I have to move the product service okay.
And maybe it's IP and port address need to be changed.
Then you first have to update the order service and then only you can migrate your product service.
Otherwise it's not possible.
Okay.
So it brings the tight coupling difficulty in testing different environment might use different URL
which require frequent changes in your config.
So if you have hardcoded it let's say now you are testing on r dev.
Then you need to change this.
If you're testing on stage you need to change this.
Okay.
So with different test environment a production QA dev different URL.
And then you have to keep on changing it if you are doing a hard coded.
So one of the way we can overcome all this limitation is our service discovery.
And there are different tools like Eureka or Console.
Okay so I am covering Eureka, which is like pretty much, uh, popular in the industry.
So.
But you can also go with the console also, the concept wise, very much similarity.
Okay.
So if you understand one other, you can easily grasp like what's going on.
So in service discovery there are two parts server and client.
So server act as a phone book okay.
Has all the instances info of the registered client like service name, instance ID, IP, port number,
health etc..
So what is that server?
Server is the one which.
So this is the server.
Server is the one which actually keeps the details of all the instances.
So instance one details instance two details 345.
All the different instances.
It keeps the detail.
Only thing is only for the registered clients, so clients have to register them.
So if you have multiple clients.
Client one.
Client two.
Client three.
So they have to register with the server.
And then only it would be maintaining the data of it.
We will see that how it is maintaining how they can register it.
But just understand that for now that it is a phone book only for the registered clients.
So clients have registered and after that, once it is registered, then Eureka Server.
You can consider it as a phone book.
Like if you want a particular details of a registered client you can get all the info that for this
is the client.
These are the instances.
This is the IP address, port number, health status up and down.
So if this client has ten instances all the details you can get it.
Similarly Eureka client most of the popular two client does is first register itself with the server
that let's say if you have a client, what you can do with the client.
First is register itself with the server that hey server, maintain my instances and its info.
Okay?
Another is discover an instance.
Let's say that if this client one needs the detail of client two, like this.
Client two has multiple instances okay.
And this client two is also registered with the server.
Means server is maintaining these all instances info.
Now this client one need the details of client to.
What it will do is discovers an instance.
So it will ask the server that hey I want to talk to client two.
Can you tell me the instances available.
So server.
Now since it's a phone book, it can return all the possible instances of client two which are up.
Okay.
So now see this diagram.
This is going to be flow now.
So now order service first.
UST get the list of a product service from the Eureka.
If it has to invoke the product service, Eureka server will return the product service instances detail.
If there are ten instances of the product, it will return all the ten details which are up okay, and
after that it will order.
Service is the one which choose a particular instance and then makes a call.
So as a curious engineer, the few things which comes to your mind is that how does Eureka Server know
whether a client is up or down?
Where and how the data is stored in the Eureka server?
What if Eureka Server itself goes down?
Is it a single point of failure or not?
Now earlier Order service is directly calling product service.
Now it is making like order service is calling Eureka server.
And then after that Eureka server is giving the list and then order service is services making a call
to product service.
So it's like a first hop.
Second hop.
So now does it cause a latency issue?
Okay.
So we will see all this answer like uh, which is very important from the interview perspective and
also our understanding also.
So first thing is how does Eureka Server knows whether a client is up or not.
So Eureka server know by two way.
First is client de registration request.
Another is through client heartbeat.
Let's say that first when client application is gracefully shut down, then Eureka client send a registration
request to Eureka server.
It marked the client status as down.
Okay, so now let's say that currently product service is up.
Okay.
Now I shut down this product service application from the ID, I shut down this application.
So if you see the logs you will see that hey, it will call Unregistering application with Eureka with
status down it is calling the Eureka server with status down.
And after that and if you check the server Eureka server logs it, received it registered instance this
with status down and then it updated the status with down for this one.
Okay, so one is through.
If gracefully things happening, then de-registration call happen from client to server.
And with that Eureka server know that client is down.
But now let's say assume that your client got shut down, but without any without sending any de-registration
request, maybe because of network issue or something, then how it will know.
It will know through heartbeat.
Every client periodically sends heartbeat to the Eureka server.
Okay, so Eureka server.
Wait for the heartbeat from the client for a particular interval.
If no heartbeat receive within that time interval, it remove the client instance itself.
It consider it dead.
The second is how does Eureka server restores the data?
Eureka server only stored data in memory.
There is no, uh, you can say that DB persistence know only in memory.
It creates a map string comma list, uh, instance info.
Okay, so here, if you see that the key is your app name slash instance ID.
So this is generally your key.
What is the app name and what is the particular instance id IP port number and the particular service?
Okay.
This totally generate a unique instance unique instance because IP is different port number IP port
number and the product app name.
This makes a unique instance.
So this is your key.
And in the value you have the value of like app name, IP address, host name, port, whether this
is up or down when it was last renewed, lease duration, etc..
Okay, so this is how Eureka server stores the data.
But there is remember there is no DB persistence.
It's all in memory.
Now what if Eureka server goes down itself?
Is it a single point of failure?
So now let's say we know that Eureka server is storing the data in memory.
So I have this map.
I have this map in memory.
Right.
Eureka server.
Now if this server goes down this all this info goes away with it.
Now if order service has to call the product service it will call this server.
Will it be available?
No.
It's gone.
It's down.
So is it.
Eureka server is bringing a single point of failure in our application.
No.
So if you are using a single Eureka server, then.
Yes.
But generally three nodes are used.
Okay.
It's used in a Eureka server cluster.
We create Eureka server cluster.
So three servers are running into different machine or container with different IP and port number.
Okay.
So on three different machine three Eureka servers are running okay.
And here each server is a client tool.
This is very important.
So now let's say that you have a cluster of three Eureka server.
Server one.
Server two.
Server three.
Eureka.
Server 123.
Now this server has to register itself Self to both this server.
First it has to registered, right.
Second, it also has to take.
Whatever the data present into S2.
So it has to discover also.
Okay.
So means this server is also now becomes a client.
So the same thing each server is a client.
Two as they have to register themselves, fetch the registry, replicate the changes.
So now let's say that your three servers which are running into three different machines.
So configuration for them would be like let's say for server one would be application name, port number,
your host name instance like on which port number it is running or IP address.
Okay.
Now here if you see even for the server I am registering Eureka dot client dot registered with Eureka.
True.
Yes, I want to register it.
Also I am making it true at Eureka dot client dot fetch registry.
True.
Yes, I want to fetch the details also.
So even though it is a server, I am treating it as a client also.
Okay, so it's a client of whom?
So for its server would be these two.
Server Eureka server which is running on 8762.
This one second Eureka Eureka two server.
And the Eureka server which is running on 8763.
This one.
So for this.
So this is a client for this two.
So it registered itself with this two servers.
Similarly server two is also a client of server two.
Now is a client of this.
And this okay.
Similarly server three is a client of one and two server.
Okay.
And in the client application property we can say that, hey, we can put all three servers here.
So one, two three.
Okay.
That's all we have to do.
So here internally the Eureka server internally whenever any.
Let's say this is server one.
Server two, server three okay.
They have their maps all sync up.
Any new entry happen here.
Let's say instance one certain detail.
It will update the detail here.
So it's eventual consistency.
It's not like always you will get like.
So let's say that the data present into server one instance detail.
So eventually it will also be present into S2.
And eventually it will also be present into S3.
Okay.
But there is no guarantee that your client now your client can request to anybody.
Let's say that if your Eureka Server one is down, it can call Eureka Server two also.
So there is no guarantee that the instance one detail which is present in S1 is properly sync up in
S2.
Eventually it will, but there is no guarantee that let's say if request goes into S2, you will get
the data.
You might not, but if you retry, you might okay, because they keep on syncing up the data.
But there could be some delay.
And because of that, if your request goes to server one, you might see the data.
If it goes to server two, you might not.
So service discovery is a provide eventual consistency okay.
So your client is now configured this three service discovery URLs.
So if one server is down it will not impact the client availability.
Now.
So there is no single point of failure.
Can it cause a latency issue?
Like earlier we were making a direct call from order service to product service.
Now, first, uh, I have to invoke Eureka Server and then make the actual call.
No, Eureka server does not get called for every request at application startup itself.
The client, let's say order service need to call to product service.
So at application startup itself it fetch the registry.
So it will fetch everything from Eureka server at the time of application startup.
And it will put into its cache locally order service put into it cache locally.
Now all the future call.
It will use this local copy only to find the instance it will not call Eureka server and we can control
this conflict like after how after how much seconds client will refresh it.
Cache copy because now you have put this data into the cache.
Okay.
So the original data which is present into the server, it might get changed certain instances from
up change to down or it got removed itself totally or new got added.
How this cache copy get updated.
So we can configure this Eureka dot client dot registry fetch interval.
Second, whatever.
The second you will put after that seconds it will update its cache copy.
Okay.
So this is the client configuration.
And what if the local cache is stale.
Can this lead to calling a dead instance possible.
Right.
Let's say that here instance one was marked as down.
So order service product service.
And let's say this is server.
And here instance one is up and during application startup it maintain the copy instance one up.
But later on let's say that it has make it down instance one is down.
But let's say that this time is not yet happen.
It has not refreshed its copy yet.
You have given such a big time interval.
Let's say I have given it as something.
Let's say that, uh, something thousand.
So I have given very big interval like or let's say 10,000, something like.
So it hasn't updated its copy cached copy.
So it might got stale.
So even though this order service see that.
Hey this instance one is up.
It will try to call but actually it's down okay.
So you have to be very careful with this timing if you keep it very less.
If you keep it.
Let's say this is order service.
This is your Eureka server.
If you keep this, let's say one second.
So after one second, it will always make a call and keep on doing refresh refresh refresh refresh.
Okay.
That is also not good.
If you keep it too large, then you might get stale data here.
And it might possible that you are in your cached copy.
It's showing up, but actually it's down.
And when you try to call it ultimately fail.
So it's a trade off.
So you have to have a proper.
This number should come up with a proper that this cache copy should be updated in how much time.
So that you have always have the latest data.
Also you don't keep on refreshing it as many as possible.
Like we don't want that.
We want as minimum as possible refresh but still the data as fresh okay.

--- Rate Limiter Algorithms ---

Other side.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today in microservices topic we are going to do how to build a fault tolerant microservice right.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So when anybody says that what is fault tolerant microservice, we mean to say that a service which
continues to work even when downstream system fails.
Okay.
So instead of crashing or cascading failure, it should handle the failure gracefully.
So what?
In short, you have a system build up with multiple microservices.
Even if some of the microservices are down and your microservices are depend on them, you should not
crash.
You should handle the failure gracefully.
Okay, then we can say that it's a fault tolerant microservice.
Okay.
Why it is required.
You will get more clarity with this, uh, example like why it is required.
So see, as in microservices, different services communicate over the network.
We all know this.
And it's possible that one service unavailability could bring down the whole system.
See this example.
Consider that this system is not fault tolerant.
How a one service can bring down the whole system.
In a normal scenario, let's say there could be multiple microservices, which I'm calling as a client,
right?
So let's say some other client or microservices is calling order component.
Order is calling product products.
Give the response and order in return gives the response to the client.
This is a normal flow.
Now let's say a buggy code has been introduced in the product and the product service becomes too slow.
This product becomes too slow.
Each API is now taking let's say says 60s, right?
60s is too much.
In distributed system.
Right.
Say product service become too slow and taking 60s to respond.
If proper fault tolerant is not applied, then a call from order service will hang for 60s.
Now the order service which is calling the product service right now it has to wait for 60s.
What if there is a sudden burst of requests coming from client?
Then all the requests will wait for 60s.
Right.
Just see this example.
Now a sudden burst coming from a microservice to a order component order in return.
Calling the product and product is currently going too slow.
So all the threads are now waiting.
Okay.
All the threads are now waiting.
Now, what eventually will happen is service will run out of thread and start rejecting the request
order.
You know that there is a concept of thread pool.
We have already covered that in depth.
So ultimately when all the threads are waiting, the thread will ultimately will get finished, all
threads will get finished, and there you will reach a point when you will start declining the request.
And this becomes a cascade failure to all your client and microservices also.
And also one more thing is even the product component will not get a normal situation because the.
You can say that the situation of a product service will keep on deteriorating because more and more
load is coming to the product.
So even though issue is at product, the failure got cascaded to order and may be because of order has
stopped.
Even order can get slow, order component can get slow or if it's thread is all done, it will start
rejecting the request.
This failure can cascade to other components also.
So that is known as cascading failure.
And now you can see that how a one service can bring down the whole component whole system.
So that's why we need fault tolerant.
That's why we need to build a fault tolerant microservice.
So if you are building a order, it need to be fault tolerant that even if product goes down or product
goes slow, I should not like its failure, should not get cascaded to me and I should not get crashed
to okay.
So here comes our resilience for framework.
So resilience for J is a combination of mechanism like rate limiter, bulkhead time limiter, circuit
breaker and retry.
So these five are the combinations.
Or you can say that the mechanism which resilience for J provides It, which helps to develop a microservice
as fault tolerant.
And one more thing.
I would say that we will go one by one in a recommended logical ordering.
So you might say what is the ordering issue like.
We can we can apply anything in in whichever order.
But see this is the logical order rate limiter first, then bulkhead, then time limiter, then circuit
breaker and then retry.
Right.
Why?
Because there is a reason.
Like let's say that if you are applying right, uh, for example rate limiter should always be applied
before retry.
Now let's say you are applying first retry and then rate limiter.
This mechanism you are applying in your system like this.
So does that make sense to you.
Just think what if rate limiter is that it.
Whenever an access traffic comes Arms, right?
It blocks some of the traffic.
Now, if you do the retry mechanism first means you are unnecessarily wasting your computation in retrying
on those traffic that ultimately will get blocked by the rate limiter.
Okay, so there is no point of retrying those traffic which ultimately get blocked.
So that's where rate limiter should be first and retry should be second in this sense.
So that's why if when you are applying all the five mechanism in your system, logical ordering should
be present.
That's what there is no hard and fast rule.
But this is you can say that uh, de facto, which generally should be followed like this should be
the order.
Okay.
So let's start with our first mechanism, which is rate limiter.
Very, very important from interview perspective.
Even when you are building the services, also in the product based system like that also is very important.
So rate limiter is what it controls.
The number of requests allowed to a microservice in a given time window.
Let's say that in this time window a particular time window, limited time window let's say five second
ten second, whatever, how much request can go through.
So in short it protect our system from sudden traffic spike like a DDoS attack.
Okay, so there are multiple mechanisms or algorithms in rate limiter before even we goes to the implementation,
let's quickly see what are all the algorithm.
So there are most commonly five algorithm fixed window counter sliding log sliding window counter which
again has two flavors token bucket and leaky bucket.
So quickly in five ten minutes we will try to go through each so that uh, when we see the implementation,
we will at least get to know what rate limiter actually does internally.
So fixed window counter.
Let's see the first fixed window counter.
It is very very simple.
It counts how many requests happens in fixed window.
If the count crossed the limit then reject the request.
For example, let's say this is the time period I am currently putting in two seconds.
Uh, actually, in coding it could be nanoseconds.
Okay.
But for simplicity, for understanding purpose, let's consider that this is the time period that every
request can come at.
Seconds 0123456.
Like this.
Now we have put a limit five that at in a particular fixed window.
If only five requests are allowed, if more than five comes rejected okay, so limit is five and window
fixed window size I have given 10s.
So now here, if you see this is window one.
This is window one 0 to 10.
This is window 210 to 20.
Okay.
Similarly window three would be 20 to 30.
Like this.
Now in each window maximum count maximum request allowed is only five.
So now let's say one request is comes at one second, then here, then here, then here then here.
Total five requests.
So all five are allowed because limit is five for this window.
And currently it's within a limit.
Now here if you see in window 212345.
So these five are allowed because limit is five.
As soon as the sixth request comes.
So in this window 10 to 20 second only five requests.
But this six is not allowed.
It is crossing the limit.
So that's why it is Rejected.
Okay, if any more requests will come that is also rejected.
Because in this fixed window already five request has come.
Now in the next window again new request can come till it's don't reach its limit.
Limit is five.
Very simple right?
But there is a disadvantage.
Disadvantage is that.
What if this is window one.
This is window two.
What if all the five requests comes at the last of this window one.
And all the requests in the next window comes at the start of its window?
Now here, if you see in one second ten request has come.
Okay.
So that is possible.
So if traffic comes at edge then there is a chance of sudden spike.
Okay.
So this is one of the disadvantage in uh you can say that fixed window counter because it's a window
fixed window and you are just counting, like, okay, this many requests are allowed.
Now the request can comes spread across the window or it can come like this.
But if it comes like this, then if you see in one second ten requests, your system is able to accept
which it might not be able to handle it.
Okay.
Then there is something called sliding lock.
Also, again, very simple, but with a very familiar data structures which we use sliding window.
Right.
So it is very very similar to that one.
For each accepted request it is stored.
The exact timestamp for each request comes in it.
First check how many requests happen in x seconds window size.
So there is a window slide slider window.
You can say that we put that okay.
10s 20s whatever.
So that would be its size.
Okay.
If number of requests reached the limit, it will reject the request.
We will see that with an example.
So here if you see window size I have put 10s.
So this is my the slider size.
So my slider size is ten second.
And in this slider size ten second maximum limit is five maximum five requests I should accept it.
Not more than that.
Now for each accepted request it store the exact timestamp.
Now let's say that first request is coming at this point.
So let's say time is started with ten 0000.
So this is ten 0002 two seconds.
First request is came windows slider window is still this only okay.
Then second request comes at this ten .00.05.
So it is logging the timestamp.
Third request comes at this 10.0007 accepted because limit is five and only three is there, and then
fourth request come at ten 00099.
Second okay, all four are accepted.
Now let's say that the time reached till here okay.
So our window size is ten.
So it has to slide.
So now window slides to 10s okay.
So now this is our current window.
Now current window is let's say we are assuming that time period is in seconds.
So it is moving second by second.
So earlier window was started from ten zero zero.
Now it's ten 000 1 to 11.
So this is my window size now.
So it will only consider requests within this window.
So in this window till now how many requests are there.
One, two, three, four till nine.
It comes right.
Now let's say at 11 another request is coming.
Will it be able to accept it?
So currently in this window only four limit is five.
So yes it will accept it.
Okay.
Now let's say that now window moves again.
Now let's say that when the time reached till here.
So window has to slide.
So window now slides to this ten 000022 1210 zero zero 12.
Now this is my window.
Now I will check if a request is coming.
New request is coming.
Does this window has how many requests?
123.
Four.
Five.
Already five is there which is already reached our limit in the window.
Now you are trying to accept a new request which is in a window, so it will reject it.
Okay.
So very simple right?
It just slides and it just keeps track of the accepted request timestamp.
Now here, if you see that one, you can say that one of the disadvantage of this also that one thing
is you already know that it has to manage the timestamp, okay.
Which is you require a memory for that, right?
More request means you have to store their timestamp.
Another problem is that now let's say that windows slides again window time reached till here.
Okay.
So window has to slide.
So it slide one second again.
So now our time is this 032 13.
Now here if you see that any timestamp of a request which we recorded which is now you can say that
out of the window it has to be clean up.
Right.
So that is your extra task which you have to do because you only need to consider the timestamp which
are present inside a window.
all the timestamps which are beyond the beyond or before the window.
It has to be cleaned up.
So that is disadvantage.
Extra overhead of cleanup.
And you need more memory to store the time frame.
Okay.
So very very sliding window kind of uh solution which is just like based on timestamp.
Now we have our third is sliding window counter.
Okay.
So it has two flavors.
Both flavors are simple.
So first flavor is sliding window counter with sub windows.
So understand that is that main window is divided into equal size sub windows.
Keep track of the number of requests in each sub window to decide if requests need to be rejected or
not.
It considered only the active subwindows.
Main window slides over time.
Don't worry about this.
Now we will understand this.
Four lines with an example and it will get clearly.
So one thing is we have something called main window.
So let's say window size is 10s which ultimately gonna slide.
Okay so we have ten second window.
Then we have sub window of two seconds.
So this is our main window.
This yellow one.
Yellow bucket is our main window of ten second.
Okay then we have sub windows of two two seconds.
So means this main window is divided into two two seconds.
Sub windows 0 to 2, 2 to 4, 4 to 6, 6 to 8 and 8 to 10.
These are sub windows okay.
And limit is five in a particular window.
In a particular window.
Max is five requests we can accept.
Okay.
Now what it will do.
Let's see that how it.
So till now it is clear right.
One we have main window.
Another is the main window is subdivided into sub windows.
Now for any new request let's say multiple requests are coming.
So request comes at here.
Limit is five.
It is one.
Limit is five.
Only two limit is five.
Only three limit is five.
Only four.
So till now it accept.
Now let's say that a new request is coming at this nine second.
So it will sum up the requests in all active Subwindows.
All active Subwindows.
So here the ultimately window size is main window size is 10s.
So currently we are at here at this nine.
So it's some window.
Is this one.
This is one sub window 8 to 10.
So it has to count how many number of requests comes into this window plus this window.
Because it has to sum up the sub windows of 10s because main window is 10s.
Okay.
So it has to sum this up.
So ultimately you can say that it all sub window task is to manage how many requests coming in their
window.
Sub window okay.
So ultimately all the sub windows which are present into the main window it will just sum it up okay.
So here at the ninth second.
So what are the sub windows.
This one 0 to 2 2 to 4, 4 to 6 6 to 8 and 8 to 10.
So total zero to 10s.
So this is your main window inside this main window These are the five subwindows.
Each subwindow is maintaining how many requests comes in their window.
Subwindows.
Okay, so we just sum it up in 0 to 2 second Subwindow.
Only one request comes.
So it has maintaining that 2 to 4 only one request came.
It is maintaining that 4 to 6 only one request came 6 to 8 only one.
And in 8 to 10 currently zero.
So how many requests till now?
Four.
And the limit is five.
So request is allowed at nine.
Okay.
It will get more clear.
We'll say that.
Now let's say time has reached till this point.
Time has reached till this point.
Now window has to move.
The main window has to move.
So how much it will move now?
Will it move by one one second?
No it will here.
In this it will move by window size two seconds.
So two second it will move.
Okay.
So now you see that where the subwindow also comes into the.
So Subwindow has two part.
One is maintain the count of requests within that window particular window.
Also is that the main window?
Slides.
Or you can say that jump according to subwindow size.
So Subwindows two second.
So when the time reached till this cross this main window size.
So main window is ten second right now.
Time reached till here.
So it has to move.
So how much it will move.
It will move by one window size.
So now our size is this 2 to 12.
Earlier it was 0 to 10.
Now it is 2 to 12.
Okay.
So here Some windows would be now this one.
These are the active sub.
Windows 2 to 4 one 4 to 6 is the second.
6 to 8 is your third.
8 to 10 is your fourth.
10 to 12 is your fifth.
So these are the five sub windows of 2 to 2 seconds okay.
And these are the active.
This one is not active now because this is now before the or you can say that the expired sub window
okay.
So now when at 11th request is coming.
So it has to consider all the active sub windows.
So this active one of the sub window is 10 to 12 10 to 12.
So 2 to 4, 4 to 6 628 8 to 10 10 to 12.
So all the sub windows present into this main sub window.
Main window.
It will only consider that and each sub window maintain how many requests comes into that period.
Okay.
So they will provide that.
And ultimately it takes the count and it will.
Don't consider the expired subwindow.
Okay.
So simple this one.
So what are the disadvantages.
First is more complex than fixed window logic.
Like you have to maintain a subwindows and for each subwindows you have to maintain the count of requests
okay.
And when the window slides it has to jump according to the subwindows.
So that is one thing.
Second thing is it also required more memory because you have to maintain a subwindow kind of information.
So another flavor of this is which is little bit simple is sliding window counter with waited window.
Okay.
So this is actually a combination of fixed window plus sliding lock concept.
So in fixed window, what we have is let's say fixed window is of ten, second window is of ten second.
So we have a fixed 0 to 10, 10 to 20 20 to 30.
Like this.
We have fixed windows okay.
Like this is yellow green.
So these are fixed windows and sliding lock.
So inside this there we will have a sliding window also of a similar size 10s.
So ten second ten second.
We have a window right.
Slider window is also ten second.
So this slider window can slide.
And when it slide some part of it might be into the previous window.
Or another part would be into the current window.
You can say that.
So here if you see that the window one has 0 to 10 second and another window window two window one.
Window one is 0 to 10.
Window two is 10 to 20.
And this slider window has 80% currently into window one and 20% into window two.
So it is possible.
Okay, so here we have given a weight.
Now it simplifies our previous uh where we are doing with sliding window with sub windows.
Right.
It simplifies some task for us that we don't have to maintain the sub windows.
We don't have to maintain the sub windows like fixed window.
We maintain that okay.
In this window 0 to 10 0 to 10.
How many requests comes.
Let's say five let's say for whatever.
So just maintain a total request not sub window type okay.
So see this example.
Let's say our limit is five okay.
In us in a particular slide window maximum five requests we can entertain.
So currently our time is 0 to 10.
Our current time is 0 to 10.
Okay.
So now let's say that the our window slider window is also currently here.
Zero to turn all 100% slider window is in the fixed window one okay.
Now request is coming at fifth.
All 100% inside this only then 6789.
So 123455 request comes totally.
It is within a limit of five of slider window okay.
So all are accepted okay.
So total request count in a fixed window is five currently because see here in 0 to 10 it just maintain
how many requests come.
So total five.
Total five.
Request accepted.
Now you will get clarified like how it works.
Now let's say time reached till this point okay means time reached into the second window now.
Window two.
So this slider has to move internally.
So now slider has moved till one to.
Now the window is slider.
Window is 1 to 11.
Earlier it was 0 to 10.
Now it moved by one second.
1 to 11.
So if you see that the slider 90% is in window one and currently 10% is in window two.
So it need to see how many traffic how many requests are accepted within this window.
Slider window.
So now just see that it very very basic mathematics only.
So it just find total request.
Total request equals to current.
Fixed window request count plus.
So means whatever in the current window.
This is the current window, right?
This is the current window.
How many total requests are present into that?
How many total requests?
We have accepted currently?
Zero plus.
Because see here we have just moved right 90%.
So how many percentage currently we have here is 90% 90% of total request which are entertained into
this window one 0 to 10.
So total five because we are only 90%.
Our window slider window is into the window one, fixed window one.
Right.
So only whatever the total request we have, we only consider this 90% okay.
So let's say it comes out to be a 90% of five is 4.5.
So let's say if we just do ceil round off.
So it would be considered as a five only.
So five is our limit for a slider window.
So we don't allow a request.
So we don't allow request here.
No.
Simple.
Now you will see that uh disadvantage also plus with another example here also.
Now the request reached till here.
Okay.
Currently slider window at 0 to 11.
Right 0 to 11.
Now time reached till here between 11 to 12.
So means slider has to move.
So now let's say slider has moved.
Now it become 2 to 12.
This is my slider window now.
So how much it is in 80%.
So 80% is in window one and 20% now is in window two.
So how many total requests.
Now, let's say any new request is coming.
Should I accept it or reject it?
It has to do first calculate that how many total requests it has present into this slider window.
So current request count.
Okay.
Uh, you can say that the current window.
Current window.
What is the request count.
So currently in 10 to 12.
Window to 10 to 12 zero requests plus 80% of.
So currently 80% of our window slider window is into the window one.
Right.
So 80% of what are the total number of requests was five.
So it just said 80% of five which is four.
So four is less than five because five is our limit of a window slider window.
So it will accept it.
It will accept it.
But now you see that this is the disadvantage itself okay.
But because now in this slider?
2 to 12.
How many requests came?
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
It become more than five.
Why?
Because it do not maintain subwindows.
It just compute total requests in a fixed window size.
So what if all the requests present into here at end of the fixed window?
So what happen is our slider will keep on moving.
And when the slider keep on moving its percentage present into the fixed window keep on reducing.
And when this number you are keep on reducing then only this ultimately will get increased.
So currently here if you see that there is a chance like 80% when you compute for this, it gives you
four.
It is not accurate info.
So there is a chance that you might entertain more requests than the limit.
Okay, so 80% of total requests.
So it accepted 80% of total request is four.
So it assumed that these requests are spread throughout the window which is actually not the case.
What if all the requests are end of this.
And if you are doing 80% then it might give you four.
But that's not the true.
Okay, so this is one of the disadvantage of the weighted window.
I hope it is clear with this diagram like how the window slides, uh, within a fixed windows.
Then we have token bucket.
Token bucket is very, very simplified versions.
And uh, what happened is we have a kind assume it like we have a bucket and we place the limited tokens
inside it.
Each request consume one token if there is no token left, request is denied and there is also a refiller
which adds the token in bucket at regular time interval.
If bucket capacity is full and cannot hold more token, token overflow will happen and token will be
rejected.
So understand with this is that this is one bucket which has capacity of four token.
So 12344 tokens are present.
There is a refiller which task is to add one token every six seconds.
Okay.
So now let's say that at 123, four five second five requests comes up.
So first four because we have four tokens right.
So first request take one token.
Accepted accepted accepted accepted.
Now all four tokens are used.
Okay.
Now fifth request.
Come.
Any token left.
No.
So it is rejected.
Now at sixth second, a refiller adds one token, So Refiller added one token into the bucket because
we have configured it.
Add one token every six seconds.
So at six seconds one token is added.
Now if any request comes, it will use it and accept it.
Very very simple.
So disadvantage is that a quick burst is possible if token capacity is not set properly.
What if I have put a token that in a bucket I have capacity equals to 1000 I.
Without doing proper computation, I give random capacity then means that much token can get accumulated.
And what if in a one second it's a sudden request comes all 1000, so all 1000 will get accepted.
So there is a chance of burst traffic.
Okay.
Because whatever the amount of tokens present, that much concurrent request can be accepted.
So you have to consider this token capacity properly.
Okay.
Another is leaky bucket.
Leaky bucket is considered as like requests are queued and accepted at fixed rate.
If queue is full, incoming request will overflow.
So let's say you have an incoming request.
Okay bucket.
Or you can say that a queue which is keep on accumulating the request.
Okay.
And the queues are accepted at a very constant or very fixed rate.
So consider this with the flow diagram a request comes if queue is full.
If this queue is full then it will send denied and it will send http 4 to 9.
Too many requests can't even accept.
If queue has some space then it will add the request at the end of the queue and from the queue Our
system will keep accept the request in a very constant rate.
Very, very constant rate.
So very simple.
But disadvantage is your latency will increase because requests might have to wait in queue for its
turn.
So request which is present here.
It has to wait for the previous request to finish and to be accepted.
And your queue is become a bottleneck.
So site size should be set properly.
If the size of the queue is very small, you would be denying lot many requests.
If the size is too big, your latency will increase a lot.
Okay.
And also memory.
You need it right?
So these are various algorithms of rate limiter.
I hope with this examples it will be clear.
Just go through this example one more time slowly and read those texts like the definition which I have
written like this.
Right.
You read it, you will get clarified little better.
Okay.

--- Bulkhead Pattern Introduction ---

Very quick rate limiter.
It protects our application from clients.
This is why I am telling you again about rate rate limiter in just one minute is because clear distinction
need to be present between rate limiter and bulkhead, because many times a confusion happens like which
one is bulkhead?
Which one is rate limiter.
So focus here is that rate limiter protects our application.
Let's say our application is order.
It protects our application.
From whom?
From clients.
So let's say this is my client.
And client is sending me too many requests.
So it limited limit them.
Hey how many requests we can accept within a specific window right.
And also one more thing is rate limit and never talks about concurrency.
So just rate limiter.
Rate limiter says that hey I can accept ten requests in one minute.
Either you can send me ten requests in one shot or one by one.
It never talks about concurrency.
It just says that.
What is the limit?
Okay, but it protects us from our clients.
Now let's go to the bulkhead that it helps to control how many concurrent requests can go to downstream
service.
Now let's say this is our service order.
Now I am more concerned about the request which I am sending to my downstream.
Now, I am not concerned about the request which I am getting from my clients.
Okay, so that is one of the major difference.
And bulkhead majorly talks about the concurrent request.
We will see that.
And if you understand this two use cases right.
So there are two possible use cases.
If you understand those two use cases, no matter when an interviewer or in your implementation like
a scenario is put, you would be able to clearly understand that whether rate limiter or bulkhead need
to be applied.
So understand that one is very very simple use case.
Let's say you have order.
This is your component and this is your downstream product.
So order invokes product API.
Let's say product is a small and lightweight service and can only handle three concurrent requests okay.
And product itself is like very lightweight.
It doesn't have put rate limiter on itself okay.
But with the bulkhead you can control that okay.
So you know that product can handle only three concurrent requests at a time okay.
So it accepts three requests all at the same time.
But when the fourth comes no there is no thread left.
So when any one of them get free then the another request would get fulfilled.
Okay.
So this is very very simple use case.
Very simple use case.
And this use case is resolved through schema for bulkhead.
So there are two types of bulkhead one is schema for bulkhead.
We have seen another one I am going to tell.
But for this use case whenever interviewer put this use case schema for bulkhead is our answer.
Okay we will see it how IT functionality.
But I think this is clear right.
Whenever there is a condition that, uh, you have a downstream which can only accept this many concurrent
requests, how you can handle it through schema for bulkhead.
Okay.
Another use case.
Very, very important use case.
And also remember that before I go to this use case remember one very, very important system design
problem which is like a noisy neighbor.
Problem.
If you can recall this problem, what it says that let's say this is your application.
And your application have multiple tenants.
Tenant one, tenant two, ten and three.
So let's say that you have one of the tenant which is very very noisy.
Like the traffic from this tenant is so high that it consume all resources, all resources.
And even the tenants which are not like are sending that much traffic, or let's say they are just hitting
one call, but their request is denied because all of your resources are used by one tenant.
That is known as noisy neighbor problem, that you have one neighbor which is very noisy, a very,
very similar.
But you can say that the context is very, narrow in this use case.
Noisy neighbor context is big like it includes thread.
Infrastructure.
Resources DB like everything.
If your tenant is using the resources like consider everything DB resource, infrastructures, threads,
everything.
But here we are mostly talking about thread in this use case.
Now consider this use case.
You will find very very similarity to noisy neighbor.
But the context is again I'm telling it's very narrow noisy neighbor problem.
Context is very broader.
So let's say that API one makes a downstream call to product service.
So I have.
So this is our component order is our component.
And we have API one which when it gets invoked it make a call to product service.
Product service is very fast, right?
Product service returns the response in less than 100 milliseconds only.
So it's a very fast service.
Okay, now we have API two.
And when this API got invoked it actually invokes internally payment service.
Now this payment service is slow.
It might take five seconds to process a request.
Let's say it has to further go to third party endpoint.
But this is slow.
This is slow service.
And for API one the product is fast service.
This is our setup.
Now let's say what if there is a sudden spike in API two traffic?
What if there is a sudden spike in API two traffic and it internally invoke the payment component,
which is slow?
Now your thread got blocked for five seconds.
Thread one got blocked for five, second thread two got blocked for five seconds.
Similarly, your N threads got blocked for five seconds.
Okay, so when a sudden spike comes in API, two more and more calls are made to payment service, which
is slow and it is possible that they might not be a concurrent.
But since this is a slow service, it blocks your thread longer for five seconds and more, and it is
possible that your all threads of order service are now blocked.
So let's say it has a thread pool of ten threads and there is a sudden spike comes in API to all ten
threads are now blocked here.
Okay, so there is no thread here.
Just assume that.
Now if any request comes to API one okay.
And this API one, will it be able to fulfill it?
No, there is no thread left in the thread pool.
So either it has to wait or it will get rejected.
So even though.
It invokes a very fast service.
There is not much traffic to API one, but still it gets suffer because of API two.
So you can say that.
We can.
So you remember there is a ship concept.
So in a ship there are different compartments.
So if water fills up into one of the compartment they block it so that water do not spill over into
the rest of the compartment.
So very very similar concept is used in the use case two.
If you are so they will put a limit.
They will put a limit.
Or you can say that thread pool.
So they limit the threads.
Hey API two they I know that you are invoking an endpoint which is very slow.
So I give you only max five threads.
Let's say you can't use more threads than that.
Okay.
So even though I have total ten threads in my order.
Thread pool.
We I have only allocated five threads to API two, not more than that.
Okay, so I have.
And if let's say suddenly more requests coming in the API to more than five.
Either they have to wait it or get rejected because the max I can allocate is fifth.
So you can say that similar to this one, I have provided a limit.
Okay.
So that only resource I can provide you man.
Okay.
So that my other endpoint do not suffer.
So you understand this use case whenever we have multiple endpoint and one of the endpoint, we have
to make sure that it do not consume all the resources.
Then bulkhead can be used and it has a thread pool bulkhead type.
So this is the second type of bulkhead thread pool bulkhead through which we can limit the resource
to a particular endpoint.

--- Retry Pattern : Fault Tolerance in Distributed Microservices ---

Before I start, I just want to say that that retry, if in not properly implemented, it has more disadvantages
than advantages.
We will get to know why.
So in distributed system, call to downstream service might fail because of transient issues.
Transient issues means that short temporary issue like network issue, timeout, etc. and retry of same
request after a short delay can get succeed.
Okay, so one question might comes to you that hey still why we should do retry?
Why can't user or client can invoke our API again.
So let's say that this is our client.
This is our component order.
And we have an API.
And we are invoking another API of let's say product component.
And there is some transient issue while invoking it.
So what we are saying is so transient issues.
If we retry it, it can get succeed.
So we can do a retry for this invocation.
So the question is that hey why we need to retry.
Why can't client again invoke the API.
So that automatically it will invoke the product API again.
Why we have to retry ourself.
So see the answer is for each call lot of heavy processing is done and it's not free of cost, memory,
time, resources, etc. everything like it's there is some cost incurred.
So say you have invoked client at first invoke an API.
90% of the API implementation is completed.
Task is completed.
Only 10% is left.
And then it invoke this product API and the transient issue happen.
Let's say, uh, network timeout happen.
So is it a good idea to dispose of this 90% of the task which is done?
No.
Right.
We if we can just simply retry this, and if it gets succeeded, then only 10% tasks have to be done.
Otherwise, if we ask client to retry again, our API hit again, our API again we will do the same
90% task again.
So redundant of the work is there, duplicate of the work is there and it will increase our cost and
it's not free of cost to be honest, right?
So with above understanding we know that retry is important, right?
I think I hope this point will tell you that why retry is important?
Because we don't want to do the same 90% task again.
Okay.
And I'm just saying this is just one client.
If there are hundred clients For this API and they are all invoking and there are thousands of calls.
So you are saying that you are doing a lot of wasting your, uh, capacity on just duplicate tasks which
you have already completed.
So we know that retry is important, but the question is when to retry.
How to retry.
Very, very important question.
When to retry.
First of all is do not retry on permanent failures.
Permanent failures is like no matter how many times you will retry, it will always fail.
Like for errors.
So for errors generally are in the category of validation error.
Validation error.
Validation error means the input request input request which client has passed has is not correct.
Until unless client will not change, the input validation error will not remove.
So if you retry with the same request previously, again you will see a validation error.
So generally these are known as permanent failure for xx.
Do not retry if operation is non patent.
What does it mean.
So hydro patency makes sure that if request is retried multiple times duplicate processing will not
happen.
So say you have a service A which invokes the create API of service B okay.
So it has invoked it.
And while service B writes into its DB but it takes certain time okay.
And here it says that timeout happen and timeout happens.
So for service A the request has been timeout.
But service B internally inserted the row into the DB.
Now since this is a timeout and user has retried.
So this is a retried again.
Now here service B be?
Insert the row again.
Id2.
Earlier it was already inserted.
Id1.
Now it is Id2.
So here.
This is not my intention.
My intention was not to create a duplicate row for the same request.
Okay, so we can say that this this API, the API of the service be this create API is not idempotent.
Okay.
So that's why we say that do not retry if operation is not idempotent.
Otherwise you will end up in creating duplicate resources.
So if you do not know how to design idempotent APIs, I have already covered it into the high level
design playlist.
Uh, in depth.
Like what are the challenges, how we can come up with the API design?
So have a look in case you have a doubt.
Okay, so but here one thing is we don't have to retry if operation is not repeated.
The third is that rule of thumb says that retry only on five x error.
What five x error says that it is system error.
Your input request.
Input request is good.
Okay.
All validation passed.
But there is some limitation in system or some issue happen in the system because of that error has
happened.
So generally these are considered as retry error.
Okay.
So it is safe to retry on this because this is first of all system error.
And also it says that it request is not successful means the previous request five X means request is
not successful.
Okay.
So that is also one.
Give us a you can say that uh relief that yeah previous request is not successful.
And we can retry as many times.
So there is no harm okay.
And five X has already know that input request is correct.
No validation errors, but there is some issue with the system.
So with retry it is possible that it might get resolved.
So that is one.
And another thing is retry network uh network error and timeout error.
We have to retry, but only make sure that whatever the API it should support auto patency.
So this is a retry decision table.
Like based on HTTP code you can decide whether you have to retry or not.
So these are not complete lists.
Just an idea.
Let's say 200 request is already success.
You don't have to retry like 400.
Bad request unauthorized forbidden 404 not found.
So these are you can say that validation error.
No matter how many times you will retry, you will always get retry failure uh, failure itself.
Right.
So you don't have to retry on this.
So 4 to 9 you can say that one of the exception, like 4 to 9, means too many requests.
So it generally happens when the rate limiting.
So for that we can do retry with some delay.
Then we have 500 internal server error 502 bad gateway 503 service unavailable.
These are like uh you can say that retry issue like uh service unavailable.
Maybe it was down.
And if you retry, it might be up and it request can get succeeded.
So for all this we can do retry.
And if there is a network error timeouts you can always retry.
Yes.
But make sure that it should be independent.
Okay.
So this is just a quick glance that based on HTTP status code, you decide whether the retry can be
done or not.
Now how to retry.
So see this is very important part.
So let's see.
First types of retry and when.
And then we will see how to implement it also.
So first is fixed interval retry.
So what does fixed interval retry says that retry after a constant delay.
So within each retry the delay is constant.
So say that the attempt total attempt is four.
So when we say total attempt means original one call plus three retries.
So total four.
Okay.
So after original call there has to be a fixed delay.
Like let's say my fixed delay is two second.
So it would be like after two second first retry will happen.
Then it will wait for two second then second retry will happen.
Then it will wait for two second then third retry will happen.
So there is a fixed interval of delay within the retries.
So let's say this is the original call which happened at two.
So first retry happen at four, then second retry will six.
Third retry at eight.
So each one has two two seconds gaps here.
So advantage of this is it is very very simple easy to configure and debug also.
But this is main disadvantage is that higher chance of retry storm which is also known as thundering
herd problem.
Thundering herd problem means many clients retry at the same time, causing a surge of retry traffic
and system spend resources on retries instead of handling new requests.
So understand with this is that.
Say that you have a load balancer and you have, let's say component service a service a multiple instances
instance one, instance two, instance three, and load balancer distribute the traffic between the
instances of service.
A there are so many clients client one, client N and the traffic is also huge.
Now let's say that a buggy code has been introduced into the service a and it is.
Start throwing some exception.
And if client start doing retry also since already it's a heavy traffic and for that they are all started
doing retry at a fixed delay.
So all are retrying.
So original request.
Let's say there are 1000 request original.
Now after two second delay.
Retry one will happen.
Okay.
So everyone will do retry 1000 requests again after two second delay.
Retry two.
They again do a retry okay.
So these are just retry traffic whatever the normal traffic new request is coming.
That is different.
So means your system is now get bombarded with the retry traffic.
And it is possible that while you are only servicing retry traffic, you somehow decline the new request
which is coming.
That is also possible.
Okay, so if you remember like in the playlist, I have already covered Thundering Herd problem like
it is one of the frequently asked interview question.
So if you want to know more about Thundering Herd problem, you can check it out.
But yeah, this is one of the disadvantage is that if all the clients retry at the same interval, it
is possible that the retry traffic become huge and it can cause thundering herd problem.
So fixed interval is clear.
Then we have exponential backoff.
So what does exponential backoff says.
That delay Increases exponentially.
So currently earlier you are delaying at this time.
Then this time, then this time, not at fixed rate, not after two seconds.
This is two second not at fixed.
So it increases with the time.
And this is the formula for it.
So the formula says that you pick some base delay that.
Yeah minimum base delay is my 100 millisecond into two raised to power.
This is the factor.
You can say that this is also configurable factor raised to power number of failed retry attempt okay.
So consider that total attempt is four means one original call and three retries.
And my base is 100.
So the formula says that the first retrieval.
So let's say original call happen at uh zero zero milliseconds.
Say so first retry will happen at 100 which is our base delay into And the factor which I have given
is, let's say this factor I have given is two for now, two raised to power.
Previous number of failed retry attempt.
Currently this is the first retry itself.
So zero retry attempt has failed.
So currently it is zero.
So this is first retry happen at.
So original call happened at zero millisecond.
First retry will happen at 100 millisecond.
Second retry will happen at 100 base into whatever the factor you have told.
Let's say I have told two raised to power number of failed retry attempt.
So till now only one retry attempt failed.
So it's one.
So retry will happen at 200 millisecond third retry will happen at 100 into two.
Raised to power.
Number of failed retry attempt two.
Till now two retry has been done.
So two ratio of two 400 millisecond.
So now here if you see the delay time is exponentially increases 100 200 400.
Next you will see 800.
Like this.
So advantage is that it reduces the load on downstream service during outage.
Let's say that this service become.
This service become down.
If we increase the delay they also get some breathing time to recover it.
Unnecessary.
If you put the load of the retry also plus the original request.
Also the it might take some more time to recover for the component.
And it also helps to avoid thundering herd problem to some extent.
Right?
Since they are not retrying at a constant time its delays.
So thundering herd problem.
You can say that uh, to some extent it reduces, but does it reduce fully?
No.
There is still a risk of thundering herd because see, this is the formula.
What if your base is my base?
All the clients select the same base and same factor, then they will retry at the same time itself.
So there is because there is no randomness, right?
So there is still a chance of thundering herd problem.
And also if outage period is short, user might wait some longer time.
So let's say that this shortage is resolved at 500 millisecond.
After 500 millisecond this outage was resolved, but after 400 millisecond the delay was 800.
Only after that it will retry.
So there is.
Even though the issue was resolved, it still added some latency, right?
The outage period is short.
User might wait longer than needed.
So this is one of the disadvantage.
So there is one.
Another version of it is like exponential backoff plus jitter.
Jitter means some randomness similar to exponential backoff, but add jitter or randomness to delay
or to.
You can say that to avoid retry stomps.
Now see exponential backoff already.
Uh, increases the delay time exponentially, right?
But only thing which missing is randomness.
So this jitter helps to retry reduce the retry stomps.
So this is its formula.
We have to choose a random number.
Between random between.
Zero comma.
Minimum of maximum delay.
What.
What is the maximum delay we can have.
Let's say no exponential backoff.
So it's not like let's say you have for example I'm just saying you have 100 retry.
So it's not like it continuously increases your time and all.
No there should always be limit right after a limit.
This is the maximum wait time.
Let's say uh, five second is the maximum delay time.
More than that, you can't go increase if you more than increase if you're with the formula, if it
gives you the value of more than five second, always use five seconds.
So this is the max limit.
So here is the same random.
You have to choose a random between zero comma minimum of the maximum delay or.
This is our exponential backoff formula okay.
So now we have bring some randomness.
So again random between zero comma minimum of maximum delay which we can wait comma your exponential
backoff formula one.
So between this it now pick some delay value.
And now since this is random You can say that, uh, it spread the retries over time, reduce peak load
and thundering herd issue is prob happening of this issue become very less because of this randomness.
The disadvantage is it's not easy to debug and it's little complex.
And the last type of retry is custom interval.
Like you define your own retry logic.
Hey I want retry to be like 11235 like this okay.
So first retry should wait for one one millisecond, then another one millisecond, then two millisecond,
then three millisecond, then five, then eight.
Like this.
So you can define your own custom logic, how you want to do a retry.
That is also possible.
So we have full control and flexibility.
But disadvantages you have to maintain you have to maintain it.
So you have to write the logic.
You have to maintain it.
The framework will not help you in this.

--- Circuit Breaker Introduction ---

What does Circuit Breaker says?
This pattern prevents an application to make repeated calls to downstream service that is likely to
fail.
Okay, so we'll come to this line again.
But see this diagram.
So let's say our application is order service right.
And we and this product is a downstream.
So order is invoking product for.
Now assume that this product service is unavailable.
So no matter how many times you call, this call will fail.
Right.
So product service is down no matter how many times whether you are doing a retry of the same call or
whether you are making a totally different call, it will fail.
So there is some disadvantages for it.
The first disadvantage is we put unnecessarily add load to the product service and because of that product
service might take longer time to recover.
So see product services already unavailable, right?
It is facing some issue and we are adding more load to it.
So there is a chance that product service might take little longer time to, uh, come up in the healthy
state.
The second is order services unnecessarily wasting its resources, both latency and the thread blocking.
So just see that if, let's say there are thousands and thousands of calls and product service is unavailable,
they all will fail.
So order service is unnecessarily wasting its resource because there is a latency involved.
It calls it.
It waits for the product service to response till timeout, and then only it will send to the client
that hey, it's a fail some five x error something.
Okay.
So there is definitely increase in latency and you are unnecessarily blocking your thread on this call.
Okay, so there is no need because even if you waited, the call is likely going to fail because the
product service is unavailable.
But now what is the solution?
How does order Service know when to stop the downstream call?
Like we are saying that hey order don't make unnecessarily call to product because it is unavailable,
right?
But how?
Order knows that when it is unavailable, when it is up and when I okay if it is unavailable, when
again I have to restart.
So something has to instruct this.
Uh, you can say that knowledge.
Somebody has to put this knowledge to order, right.
Then only order would be able to stop or restart the call.
So who at that knowledge, that is circuit breaker.
Okay.
So again, revisiting the line which we went ahead in the first place, it prevents an application to
make repeated calls to downstream service that is likely to fail.
So see this diagram now.
So now order service let's say make initial calls.
And both got failed.
So now we will put some threshold value that hey if this many calls get failed means there is some issue
with the product.
So don't make any further calls to it.
So now after that, once that threshold limit is reached, we will stop the future call to product.
So now all future calls.
There is no hit to the product.
We will fail the call immediately.
We will not block the thread.
We will fail the call immediately.
Okay.
And we will wait for some time.
After that we will check if product service is healthy or not, so it will do a trial testing.
After some time, hey, it will send some sample.
Or you can say that the test calls hey is product service is responding properly or not?
If yes, then only it will allow future calls to the product.
Okay, so whatever we have covered here it is can be understand.
It can be understand through this state diagram.
So start from here.
This is the initial state okay.
So for any application the best case is closed.
Closed means that all calls are allowed to downstream service means everything is going good okay.
Circuit is closed.
Means just remember always sometime many times engineer get confused that hey, circuit is closed.
means no calls.
No.
So see, consider this as a circuit.
So when the circuit is closed, then only electricity will flow.
When the circuit is open, then electricity current will break.
Understand?
It is just to remember this.
So when the circuit is closed, all calls are allowed to downstream service.
Now if failure limit cross the threshold let's say five failure six failure.
Whatever the threshold we will set if that many failures.
So see there could be some success.
There could be some failure while making a call to downstream.
But if the failure limit threshold value is crossed, then it moved from closed state to open state.
Now, open state means no calls allowed to downstream service and fail the call immediately.
So after this it wait for a certain time, which is like you can say that timeout period.
After that, let's say it could be ten second, five second, 15 second that, hey, for five second
or ten second, no call is allowed.
After that it moved to half open state.
Half open state says that allow only limited number of test calls to downstream and track their success
rate.
Say I say that hey allowed only three calls.
Allowed only five calls.
So very limited number of calls.
We will send it to the downstream and then track their success rate.
If the success rate is 100%, then circuit can be closed again.
But if the success rate is not 100%.
The state goes back to open.
Okay, so whatever we have seen this can be easily represented through this state of circuit breaker.
