

=== Spring boot Fundamentals ===


--- Spring boot Introduction ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the first topic of Spring Boot that is Introduction to Spring Boot.
And I will cover this thing what problem it solves and its features and advantages.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So why Spring Boot exists today?
What problem it solves right?
How it is differ from Spring Framework.
There are a lot of questions about it.
So to clarify about it, like the complete picture, we have to go a little bit back when servlets were
popular.
So back in 2015 and 2016 I worked a lot on servlet, and I know how hard it was to manage the application.
And currently we are working on Spring Boot and we know that how easy it is compared to servlet.
So I will not tell you about in depth about it, but at least I will tell you what problem was exist
in the servlets.
What problem it solves.
Okay, so let's go.
So that's why I mentioned before we talk about the spring or spring boot.
First we need to understand about servlet and servlet container.
So these are the foundation for building web application.
Back in 2013 1415 this servlets are very popular.
And these are you can say that the foundation for the web application spring and spring spring boot
internally uses the same concept.
Right.
So they servlets actually build the foundation.
So what is servlet.
Servlet is a Java class which handles client requests, processes it and returns the response.
So consider this as a class where you have defined any one.
Your API input request comes in.
This is known as sublet.
Uh, this API got invoked.
It will do some processing and return the response.
So this actually, which handles the request, processes it, and returns the, uh, send.
The response back is known as sublet.
And what is servlet container?
A servlet containers are the one which manages the servlets.
So there can be so many servlets.
So servlet containers are the one which manage this servlets which manage this servlets.
Okay.
So I will come to this diagram.
But let me first tell you in a very easy manner how we used to write a web application.
Very simple.
Only one you can say that one class.
I will tell you.
So this is how servlet used to look like okay, so I have defined my API here.
So here at the web servlet slash demo servlet right one.
Demo servlet one.
So this is you can say that my API and I extend it with HTTP servlet.
So a one servlet can have only one do get do put do post do delete.
Right.
Uh these are the methods which we have to override and provide the implementation.
So here if you see that this is the servlet.
And in this method any Get request which comes it will come to this.
So it will get comes to this I am doing processing and ultimately will send the response if required.
So currently I am void no response.
So any response will go.
So HTTP response will go in the this response I can set it here.
Okay.
So this is known as sublet.
So this is I make another sublet because we can have more than one sublet.
So that's why I created another sublet and give them the name demo sublet two.
Okay.
So in this sublet also I can have do get do, put, do post do delete right and do something and return
if required.
So I can have multiple servlets.
So there is something called web dot XML.
And this is the culprit actually which makes everything too complex.
So what in the web.xml there are so many things we use to do filtering and.
All right.
But let's keep aside.
Uh, the one thing which we have to do is the servlet mapping.
So what servlet mapping is that.
So this is one servlet demo servlet one.
Right.
So this is the servlet name demo servlet one.
What all URL this will handle okay.
What all URL this will handle.
So let's say slash servlet one this if if customer hit this URL let's say demo servlet one okay.
So it will come to this servlet.
So this servlet will handle.
So that's what it's mapping is if user invoke this API slash demo servlet one slash first endpoint some
endpoint which servlet will handle.
There are multiple servlet.
Servlet one servlet two servlet three servlet 100.
So if customer hit this API which sublet will handle.
So I have mapped it to sublet one this servlet.
So that API will come to here this sublet one.
And after this it will go inside a particular method.
If user has hit the get HTTP request get so it will go inside.
Do get and check the request info.
Okay, first end point slash demo servlet one and user hit first end point.
So okay this elsif will get executed okay.
And if user hit this API if user hit this API.
So in the servlet mapping Web.xml it has been mapped to which servlet servlet demo servlet one.
So it will goes to the demo servlet one.
And let's say it is again a get call.
So it will goes to the do get.
And then it will check all the if condition.
Okay.
Uh this is the this else if condition got match slash second end point.
So this this processing will start.
So you got it.
If if.
the put API got invoked.
Put slash.
Demo.
Servlet one.
So what would get invoked?
Okay.
Demo servlet one is the API which is mapped to this API.
This servlet.
Okay this servlet will invoke this is the put.
So it will goes to do put and then it will see okay this is the path and do the processing.
So similarly another mapping I have done is for my second servlet.
So this is how servlet used to work.
Now let's come to this diagram.
So when input request comes in.
It first has to goes to the Tomcat.
This is the server which is also known as actually your servlet container right.
This is not service container.
My bad.
It's servlet container.
So Tomcat used to know also known as servlet container.
Okay.
So we have to deploy our application here in the Tomcat servlet container.
So our application has all this servlet servlet two and all this.
We will convert it to war and we will deploy it here in the Tomcat.
Now what this servlet container will do I told you that servlet containers are the one which manages
the servlet.
So what it will do is at the first it will invoke use the Web.xml and see that hey user has invoked
demo servlet one slash first endpoint.
Whoo!
So now this servlet container will use this Web.xml this mappings and identify which servlet has to
be invoked.
So in Web.xml it will check that.
Okay.
Uh, demo servlet one first.
Endpoint.
Yeah.
Demo servlet one.
First endpoint.
This one.
Which servlet gonna be handle?
This is the name.
Servlet name.
Demo.
Servlet one okay.
So this is the name demo servlet one.
Which class?
Demo servlet.
So I have kept the name and class name same.
So this is the name you can give any name.
So with this name it will find out the mapping class.
So this class will get invoked.
And this class is a servlet class.
So it now know which servlet has to invoke.
And then ultimately it calls the servlet right.
So it will call this demo servlet one right.
That particular method because it knows that it's a get call.
Right.
So it will invoke its do get method.
And now this sublet would should be able to handle it okay.
So this piece of code would be executing it.
And it will send the response Once back.
So you got the house I used to work.
Now there are certain problems in it.
Which Spring Framework solves, right?
Spring framework says you can say that is a family which has lot of features, right?
And you can say that even Spring Boot is comes under this spring framework only.
Okay.
But I would say that before Spring Boot comes there is something called spring MVC.
This comes before Spring Boot okay.
So we will come to Spring Boot.
So to solve the issues of the sublet I will tell you the issues.
Spring MVC comes into the picture.
So what all problems it solves.
So Spring framework solves challenges which exist with servlets.
What first removal of Web.xml.
This web.xml becomes too big.
So because see, when you work on a production level application where it takes handles millions and
billions of requests.
This one servlet two servlet, there can be hundreds of servlets.
And to have the mappings of those hundreds of servlet, it become too big, right?
Also, this web.xml holds lot of information like filtering.
Any request comes it has to go through filter what sequence of filtering it has to go that also maintains
over here.
So this Web.xml is contains lot of information and it's become very difficult to manage and understand
it.
So spring framework introduce annotation based configuration.
So removal of web dot XML completely makes developer life lot easy because now developer can work through
annotations.
Okay.
So the second advantage of Spring framework is inversion of control.
Very important IOC.
So what IOC definition is IOC is more flexible way to manage object dependencies and its life cycle
through dependency injection.
So sometimes you say that hey dependency injection.
And sometimes some people say IOC both are same.
So generally you can say dependency injection is an implementation of IOC okay.
So sometimes somebody calls IOC, sometimes somebody say dependency injection but they both are same.
Okay.
So what is inversion of control.
Uh I'll tell you.
Here, let's see this example.
Then we'll come back to a more advantages.
Okay.
So here if you see that consider this example simple Java class okay.
In this simple Java class I have created a payment class.
And I this payment card is depend on this user.
So I am creating an object of this user.
There is a simple method get sender details ID.
So what I'm doing is I'm using this object sender calling its method get user detail and passing the
ID.
So what it will do is it will invoke this user class, this method, pass the ID and it will fetch certain
data of this ID and maybe return it or do something.
Okay.
So what is the problem.
You see I see there is one major problem is very tight coupling.
So there is a very tight coupling between payment and user class.
You can ask me, right?
Hey, what do you mean by tight coupling here?
So see, this is I can tell you what.
Like what I mean by tight coupling.
Suppose I want to write unit test cases for the payment get sender details method.
You already know that unit test cases means only if.
Let's say, if I am writing a unit test cases for this payment class.
Right.
So I should have the capability to test this method only this method.
If this method is invoking some outside different class method, I should be able to mock it.
Mock it in the sense okay sender dot.
If whenever this is called, let's say I should always get this value.
So I mocked this.
That's what unit testing is, right?
You should be able to mock the data which you are not testing.
Okay.
So as in the mock testing of this class and this method, I should not test this.
So that's why I should be able to mock it.
But will you be able to mock if you are creating a new object here?
If you are creating a new object here, it will definitely call this for sure.
So how you will mock it?
There is no way, right?
So definitely writing a unit test cases would gonna be a very, very difficult.
So how the inversion of control or dependency injection solve it.
So in spring framework again verse don't worry about this annotations.
I will explain the annotation in the upcoming session, but this component auto wired.
What is the usage of this component?
Just keep aside first, but just understand the concept right.
So with the dependency injection what problem we solve is.
So now here we have used certain annotation which tells the spring that hey you manage it.
Okay.
So here if you see that user I have given at the rate component.
And now this, I handle it to the spring.
Hey you manage this bean okay.
You manage this class.
Similarly payment also I have created at the rate component.
And this class is also now get managed by spring.
And here I have put at the rate auto wired.
So auto wired tells the spring to resolve and add this object dependency.
Whenever this class get initiated.
Okay, so now whenever this class get initiated, what spring will say that okay, add the auto wire
is there means I need to create an object of it.
Okay.
So it will resolve it.
Spring will resolve the dependency.
It will create object.
We are not creating object here like this.
Okay.
So what advantage we get here.
The advantage is let's say that first unit test cases.
Unit test cases I can mock it.
I can tell spring.
Hey create a mock data for it.
Mock it.
Now during runtime, spring will create a mock object of it.
And using that mock object, I can say that, hey, whenever that mock mock user object dot get something
has been invoked, do do this.
Okay, so what happen is that now we have the control okay.
So here I haven't hard coded it like new user which always create a new user I.
Now this is getting managed by spring.
And this process is known as dependency injection.
Unit testing is much harder in servlet.
And I already told you how it become easy in the spring through dependency injection.
We have already seen the process difficult to manage rest API as you already see that.
Each servlet can have only one get method one put method one post method Write one particular servlet,
but let's say there can be for this servlet.
Let's say there could be ten APIs which has to handle.
So generally this is how it should.
We used to do if else if else if okay.
So in this path which is handled by this servlet, whenever this path comes do this.
Whenever this path comes for the get do this whenever for get this path.
Come do this.
So it's not very you can say that, uh, flexible way to handle the, uh input request which is coming.
Right.
So path mapping makes code little difficult to understand.
That's what I used to feel, right.
So spring MVC provide an organized approach to handle the request.
And it's easy to build RESTful API.
I'll tell you like very very simple.
We are also using it.
right are very easy way.
So here if you see I have also taken an example this one.
So we have like at the rate get mapping this path.
Now you can have another at the rate another get mapping.
Let's say at the rate payment some certain my endpoint certain endpoint let's say one.
Right.
So you and it's method public string.
Public string.
Some let's say method.
Now do something.
So in one class we don't have to have like all the get API's.
If else if else if else you can have a proper.
If there are ten get API's you can have ten mappings properly.
So it's very easy to understand.
And you can say that or more organized way of handling the request Okay, so it's easy to build RESTful
APIs.
So there are many more advantages of a spring framework.
And the spring framework brings a lot of other advantages.
I have already told you that integration a lot of integrations are present.
Okay.
Developer can choose different combination of technologies and framework which best fits their requirement.
For example, for unit testing you can choose JUnit.
Mockito integration is available in spring.
You can start using it.
Let's say for data you can use hibernate JDBC, JPA lot of integration available.
If you want hibernate based upon your specific need, go ahead, use it.
If you want JDBC, go ahead, use it.
Similarly, for asynchronous programming, caching, messaging, security all integrations present.
This will take your picture.
Clear your picture completely okay about this spring framework.
So request comes in.
Again like us.
Same here.
We have something called servlet container.
So Tomcat is the servlet container.
We have to deploy our application here.
Remember the word I am saying we have to deploy right.
So whatever the application we have we have to create a war.
Deploy it here in the servlet container.
Tomcat okay.
Why I am focusing more because it will.
It's an advantage of spring boot.
I'll come to that.
So in the spring framework.
Or you can say that in spring MVC earlier when request comes in it goes to the servlet container and
servlet container which is Tomcat.
We have deployed our application.
Then it the request goes to dispatcher servlet.
It is also known as the first controller.
Also known as first controller dispatcher.
Servlet.
Okay, so in spring these classes are where they're these classes, right.
Where we have exposed the APIs.
Right.
This is known as controller right.
So we can have so many controller classes right.
Let's say I have this uh payment controller.
Right.
I have this payment controller class.
I have a put the annotation controller to tell the spring that this is the controller class.
So any API will come.
You will find certain mapping here.
So similarly I can have so many controller class.
Let's say that class order.
Order controller I will also have annotation at the rate controller here.
Sales controller something so so many controller class there.
So which controller class to invoke for this API.
So let's say that the request comes slash uh demo slash endpoint one.
This API comes now which controller will handle it in the servlet.
This is going to do that stuff.
Servlet container.
But in spring no spring there is something called dispatcher servlet.
So this servlet container pass it to dispatcher servlet all the endpoints.
Now this dispatcher servlet which is also known as first controller will decide which ultimately controller
I have to pass this require and how it will do.
So first it will choose the controller and it uses handler mapping.
Okay So here we are doing request mapping here.
If you see these are the annotation I told you we are not doing web.xml.
We are not creating Web.xml in Spring Framework annotations.
We are using it.
So you can just see that internally it might be doing certain XML configuration and all, but for us
it's a simple annotation that we have mapped this class.
We have mapped this payment controller class.
To handle this request mapping at the rate payment API okay.
So like this mapping we have done.
So first dispatcher server dispatcher servlet uses the handler mapping to know which controller to invoke.
Now it knows that okay uh for example payment API.
Now let's say instead of this demo it is slash payment API.
Now, based on this handler mapping it knows that okay it has to invoke this controller payment controller.
Okay.
Now it has to create an instance.
Right.
Because I have because here in the spring we cannot you won't find anywhere uh equals to new equals
to new.
So dispatcher servlet is now going to create an instance of what.
Create an instance of your controller class payment controller.
So now it will create an instance of your payment controller.
And it will use it will use.
Or you can say that the leverage IOC inversion of control now.
Now what it will do is that okay I need to create an instance of payment controller.
But for for that I have to also resolve the dependencies if there are any.
So it will see that okay IOC now it will goes to the IOC.
IOC uses dependency injection.
And with that it will say that okay at the auto wire means this payment controller is dependent on this
object.
I have to resolve it.
So now IOC will create an object for this and inject it right.
So it will on the fly.
It will now create an object of it and populate it with the object.
Okay.
So now the instance is created for this.
And all the dependencies are resolved for this which are where this class depend on us.
All the auto wires are resolved.
By whom?
By IOC right.
All the dependencies are injected.
Now what it will do is it will dispatcher will invoke the controller method, particular method.
So now that particular method Let's say the API was uh, end point is let's say slash payment API slash
payment.
This is the request.
So it will say that okay slash payment it will invoke this particular get mapping.
Okay.
So here if you see that these mappings helping the dispatcher servlet to determine which controller
and which method to invoke which controller and which method to invoke.
Okay.
So is it clear like when I'm saying handler mapping.
What is what does it mean.
This mappings request mapping get mapping.
These are ultimately helping the dispatcher servlet to determine which controller to call.
And in this controller which method to invoke based upon this API which is coming.
It will do this mappings and find out the controller and method.
So ultimately in the controller method.
So this will now process it and then ultimately return it.
And it goes.
So spring framework is clear like where the IOC comes into the picture actually.
Right.
Okay.
So till now you clear that from the journey from servlet to spring framework, which is spring MVC.
You know the advantage.
Now why what's the need of Spring Boot now.
What's the use of spring boot?
But before spring boot, let's see the one example of spring MVC.
So that will clarify when we will see the advantage of a spring boot.
So this is a very, very simple spring MVC application.
You can say that okay I have created a controller class one controller class like payment controller.
Put again ignore the annotations.
We will see the annotation in depth.
But for now just remember this is one of the controller one.
One of the controller class where kind of a similar to servlet where any request comes in, processes
it and return it.
Okay.
And these are the mapping in servlet.
We were doing a mapping in Web.xml in spring MVC.
These are the annotations we are using and mapping whenever any API comes in.
So these mapping helps which controller should handle it and what method and dispatcher servlet is going
to use it.
So this class is created.
This is something called Pom.xml where we have written the dependencies.
So this is first dependency.
Let's say we are creating a web application web app spring MVC.
So we have created its version.
Then you want sublet.
You have created its version.
Added dependency.
Let's say if you want unit test cases JUnit, you have added its dependency with the version.
So for simpler perspective I have written three dependencies.
Uh, you can write into the pom.xml.
This is Maven, right?
So I have written three dependencies.
The another class is Appconfig.
So this class in this class generally in the spring MVC we have this annotation important where what
this tells is that it loads lot of dependencies which spring MVC is required.
Right.
So it loads all of it.
Then another annotation you have is at the rate component scan.
So we provide a package.
So what is this?
Only within this package you are telling that hey spring only within within this package.
And below you go and manage whatever the controllers or whatever the controllers.
I am creating it, right?
Controllers, beans and all.
So we are telling spring to do a scanning whatever because spring has to search right?
The controller and everything.
So we have to give it a path from where it has to start searching for the component scanning.
So we can provide it here.
So that's where it's known as configuration classes because it load configuration for spring MVC which
is required to work.
And also components can be define it here.
And I told you that dispatcher servlet is used in spring MVC.
And this dispatcher servlet is the first controller.
All the requests from servlet controller comes to it and it.
It performs all this stuffs.
Select the controller.
Create an instance.
So that's why there is one called dispatcher servlet class.
We have to create like this in spring MVC.
We have to extend this dispatcher servlet this one.
And we have to provide this three methods.
We have to override this three methods provide what is the conflict class.
We can provide it there.
This is our conflict because this class name can be anything right.
So we have to give like what is the conflict class.
So any dependency it required it can load it enable MVC right.
This is an annotation.
So this annotation load lot of spring MVC kind of libraries internally then servlet mapping.
So we have told that any request coming with this slash itself, you have to handle it right.
So those also we have mentioned in this dispatcher servlet.
What all requests we it has to handle.
So this means all okay so this if you see that even a basic application I am writing I have to have
one controller, this form, this config and this dispatcher servlet.
And you already know what is the dispatcher servlet controller and IOC and all.
So this spring framework is clear.
Now you can tell me, hey, why Spring boot is required.
What problem is spring boot solve?
Why it exists today.
Spring boot solve challenges with exist with spring MVC see three big things.
First, dependency management here.
If you see that in the spring Pom.xml spring MVC, spring MVC, if you focus a little bit, you are
adding a dependency, whatever you require, and you also have to provide the version.
You also have to provide the version.
Now let's say that in future you have to upgrade the version of J units from, let's say four point
13.2 to, let's say 5.1.2 something.
But will this version work with this version also?
It might, it might not, because you know that the dependencies should be compatible with each other.
So this is one problem with the spring Dependency management.
So no need for adding different dependencies separately and also their compatible version heading springs.
Keep it easy.
So spring boot, keep it easy.
You have to just give like this starter web and starter test.
So this web already internally it will load whatever dependency it required to create a web application.
This will load whatever the dependency it required for testing.
So it will automatically add the dependency for you.
And here also if you see you don't you are not defining any versions also.
So you don't have to worry it will automatically load those version which are compatible with each other
and internally it will load all the dependencies which might require for creating a web application.
Here you might require 1520 dependencies.
I have written only three, but it might require 1520.
But here you might only need two.
Internally it will load all in here you need.
Is that this parent?
That's all.
What?
Spring boot version you are using three version.
That's all.
You only you have to define the spring version here.
Starter.
Parent version.
Rest all this thing.
You don't have to define the version itself internally.
It will keep loading.
Keep adding the version.
It is now spring boot headache.
So dependency management is the first advantage of spring boot over spring MVC.
Okay so understand this that this is your spring MVC.
This is your spring boot.
So all the benefits of spring MVC is also present into spring boot plus additional something.
So dependency management is same thing.
It is doing the same thing.
Spring boot is doing the same thing as spring MVC.
But now it's a little bit abstracted to us.
Second thing is second advantage is auto configuration here.
If you see that this dispatcher servlet, this is kind of a configuration right.
This class is kind of a configuration.
This class is also a configuration web app config.
Right.
These are a lot of configuration class.
So that's why the another advantage of spring boot is auto configuration.
No need for separately configuring dispatcher servlet App.config.
You don't need to define component scan web and enable web MVC Spring boot internally add by default
values for it.
So Spring boot internally will add by default values of at the rate component scan.
So wherever your application start application exists main method.
From that package onwards it will start.
So what it does is, uh, there was a term called, if I remember correctly, there was a term called
open, open opinion.
Opinionated.
Uh, just double check once.
I think that's why we call that spring boot has opinionated nature means it will give opinion.
So opinion means it.
Choose by default.
Hey component scan, I am choosing the package as, uh, from wherever your application main method
starts.
That package I will choose.
So if most of the time you can go ahead with this spring boot opinion.
Okay, so that's why you don't have to write this.
But let's say that if you are not agree with Spring boot opinion or by default, you can anyway add
this your own.
Also, I will tell you you can add it, but that's why it is known as auto configuration means Is no
need for separately configuration.
Configuring all this dispatcher servlet.
App.config components can springboot and internally by default, but if you want you can.
In this spring boot class you can add component scan if you want to change the default values right.
We will see that at the rate component scan.
What does it mean and all.
Don't worry about this, but understand what is mean by auto configuration.
And there is a term called I think opinionated.
That's the same thing.
Spring boot gives the opinion that I am using this.
So if you are agree with this opinion you don't need this configuration.
It's auto configure.
If you deviate from its opinion you you can write component scan and give your package from where to
start.
So only one class you required here in Spring Boot is this spring boot.
This annotation is spring boot application annotation.
So this annotation itself internally has at the rate enable web MVC at the rate component scan dispatcher
sublet all the configuration auto configuration are.
You can say that hidden inside this one annotation itself.
And this is your main method, the start of the application.
Okay.
So second advantage is clear auto configuration.
There is.
Now you don't need to create this class.
You don't need to create this class.
You don't need to do add the rate component scan.
Everything is taken care by Spring Boot itself.
So now it's very clean class one.
And the third very big advantage is embedded server.
So from if you remember I was focusing on the term that we have to deploy.
Or we have to first create a var of our application and deploy that into the Tomcat, which is a servlet
container.
Okay.
In both Servlet and Spring MVC.
But in spring boot in spring boot server is already embedded.
You don't have to generate a var.
You don't have to take a var and deploy it to Tomcat.
Servlet container server is already embedded inside it.
It automatically does it for us.
We don't have to do it right.
Servlet container is already embedded.
We don't have to do all this stuff.
Just run the application.
I will tell you how.
So what is a spring boot?
In simple term it provide a quick way to create a production ready application.
It is based on spring config, spring framework only spring MVC it support convention over configuration.
I already told you that auto configuration part, right?
It uses default values for configuration.
And if developer don't want to go with convention, they the way something is done, they can override
it.
Convention means the way something is done.
Default values.
If you don't agree with the default values, you can always override it.
That is, convention over configuration means so it support convention over configuration.
It also helps you run an application as quick as possible right?
So now this is very simple here.
If you see that Pom.xml is very simple here parent dot parent is there where with the version.
But now it's dependency here.
If you see that only two dependency you don't have to add more.
You don't have to add version also.
So you don't have to worry about dependency management.
There is nothing no configuration.
You created one controller class I have defined a controller class, I have defined the mapping which
API are one.
Get call for sampling and this is the start application.
I told you why it is required all the auto configuration here hidden inside it.
Now.
Now when you start this application, this method and if you on the chrome if you just call this if
the client is invoking this slash my API slash first API Springboot is nothing but a spring MVC, right?
The same dispatcher servlet is hidden to us, but internally dispatcher servlet will use this mapping.
It will identify okay, my API, which controller?
Okay.
My API is mapped to this my controller okay.
First API which method this get method will get invoke and it will print this hello from concept encoding.
So dispatcher servlet will create an object of it and it will pass it to IOC.
If there is any dependence to resolve any dependency, if there at the rate auto wire, nothing is there.
So no need of IOC.
It just simply create an object of this and invoke this.
Okay.
So let me show you here.
This is the Spring boot here.
If you see I am just simply running run here.
If you see that tomcat is started so I don't have to create var, I don't have to deploy automatically.
Server started on this port.
Now we can just simply go and in the Chrome we can add this API localhost.
This is on this is the port where it started and this is the API I am hitting.
So this is the API.
I have written controller my API and this is the endpoint first API.
If I press enter center.
Hello from concept encoding.
Don't worry about this setup of this project that we will see in the second part or second session,
but focus on the points like why Spring Boot needed at the first place.
That was the big I can tell you just three advantage of this embedded server auto configuration, dependency
management.
And I can simply cover this whole video in 15 20 minutes itself.
But without understanding the servlets, what problem exists, what spring MVC solves it, and what
are the problem in spring MVC itself, which Spring Boot solves?
Without that, it's a partial knowledge, but I hope you like it and you will share it with your connection
if you think it will help them.
So thank you for that and see you in next video.
Bye!

--- Spring boot Project Setup and Layered Architecture ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the second topic of Spring Boot setting up our project.
And I will also tell you about the layered architecture which Spring Boot generally we follow.
Okay.
So let's start without wasting any time.
Setting up the Spring Boot project is very, very easy.
That's my experience right after this session.
When you try to set up, let me know your experience.
Also like, do you find it easy or hard right?
So how you can set up is first you can directly go to spring initializer URL.
So this is the URL start.spring.io.
So this type of page will get open okay.
So what you have to do is you have to select the language.
So I'm comfortable with Java.
So I'm using Java and the dependency like so maven I am generally use as a dependency, all the management
and all.
So you can choose either Gradle and Maven, whichever you like.
Like so I generally follow Maven.
Okay.
So if you don't know Maven, don't worry.
If you, uh, know from our playlist or like we will discuss about the Maven in-depth, uh, at least
how our Maven architecture or Pom.xml looks like.
Okay.
So I have chosen Maven for that one project.
Choose the version of Spring Boot.
So let's pick the latest 13.2.3 okay, so fill up these details.
Your project metadata.
So these are group and artifact is something which uniquely identifies your project okay.
So generally group is something your company name and anything.
So I just use com dot concept and coding artifact is generally uh the project name.
Right.
So I have just given the name as a learning spring boot.
You can give anything, right?
The group but combining group and artifact individually identifies a particular project.
Okay, this name and description we can give accordingly what project we are building.
Okay.
So ultimately this is how our package name gonna look like.
Okay.
So after this one you have to decide the packaging jar or VAR.
If anybody who don't know what's the difference between jar and var and when to use.
So just one minute so that I will explain this one.
It will get clarifies to you.
So jar means Java archive var means a web archive.
So in the world of microservices and stand wherever you need standalone Java application you have to
use only jar, right?
When I say that what is mean by standalone Java application?
Let's say that we are writing one application Java application and we just started its server.
That's all.
So this is a standalone application.
It doesn't need anything else.
You send it the request it will give you the response.
But in case of var you need let's say the complete web archive like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, some JSP
pages.
Right.
If you need a complete bundle complete package for the web application, then it is then go for var
right?
We used to use it way back long, but nowadays in the world of microservices, each micro, each component,
each microservice is an individual standalone application.
Okay.
So in today's world mostly you will find we are using jar only Java archive which are Java standalone
application.
You don't need HTML, CSS, JavaScript, everything to be done together.
No Java Java classes.
It's libraries, all its resources.
That's all.
Pick the Java version which you are comfortable with it so it giving two options 1721 I picked 17 okay.
And then there comes the dependencies.
So for now I have chosen one dependency spring web.
So spring web says that uh, help in building the web RESTful APIs.
Right.
Uh, we will get the embedded, uh, server, uh, servlet container Tomcat.
Right.
So we are getting all this things.
So this is basic sufficient to create a web application microservice.
We can create a server with with this spring web.
Okay.
Let's say that we want to connect with DB and all.
There would be more like a spring jay, so we can add more dependencies directly in the maven if required.
So just for the starting setting up the project, we can start with one.
So in our Maven Pom.xml only initial dependency will get added for this one.
And as soon as we progress we require more dependency.
We will add in our Maven pom.xml file.
Okay.
And after that you will.
There will be one generate option.
You can generate it and the project will get downloaded to your system.
Now you can open your favorite IDE.
My favorite IDE is IntelliJ.
And you know that those who are using IntelliJ.
There is another way of setting up the Spring Boot project is uh, you can click on the file in the
new you will see project.
And when you click on the project there is something called spring.
Right.
So it is not available in the community version.
It is available in the ultimate version.
I think it required uh, some payment, but uh, for community version this is locked.
Okay.
So those who have ultimate version, they can even create a spring boot directly from their system,
uh, from their IDE itself or otherwise.
You can just simply, uh, do open you can just, uh, open the project.
Right, which you, which is downloaded.
So the downloaded would contain.
So these all things which I have written, this will not be there.
So it would be this would be ultimately get downloaded when you open the project which is downloaded
in the IDE.
So these two things you will get a Pom and you will get a spring boot application class.
That's all.
And this is the package which we have defined there.
Right.
So this simple, very basic things now comes into this.
If you run it your if you run this Tomcat is started okay.
Server is getting started.
Right.
But since we haven't written any control or anything, nothing would uh, you can't hit any API but
project setup that easily.
Okay.
Or you see that all the dependencies, whichever we have set, it's available here.
Only two dependencies comes with the web, uh, this one and the test to writing a unit test cases.
If we required more in future, we can add more here.
Okay.
So setting up the project is that easy in Spring Boot.
And one thing also today I will, uh, wanted to explain you is what is layered architecture in Spring
Boot.
Okay.
So in spring boot generally this layered architecture is something which is mostly used right?
And in many big MNCs you will find this layered architecture only.
So what is this layered architecture?
So let's say these are the clients.
They are hitting any API okay.
So this is the first layer which is controller layer.
So this controller layer has all the classes which has annotation like at the rate controller at the
rate rest controller like this.
So these are the classes which host your endpoints right.
Like we have seen previously.
Like like slash payment slash payment slash some endpoint one.
Like these.
All classes only host that API and client hit that API right.
They will interact your component with the these APIs itself.
And controller layer is the first starting point.
Uh which host hosts those APIs.
Second layer is your service layer.
So these classes generally has at the service annotation.
And this is where we put our business logic.
So all your business logic whatever patterns whatever the business specific logic, anywhere anything
which you have to put, you have to put inside the service layer.
Right.
Not in controller, not in repository service layer.
This is the third layer which is called repository layer.
So there generally you will find classes which is annotated with like at the repository annotations.
And its work is to connect with the DB right.
So maybe my SQL may be NoSQL whatever.
So this layer actually interact with the DB, fetch the data and return to the service layer or if it
has to insert repository layer takes the responsibility to insert the data also.
So repository layer generally and should be interacted with DB.
So many times people what we do is we from service layer.
Also we sometimes start doing get calls and insert calls into DB.
See nobody is stopping it, right?
We can do whatever we want, but it's a not.
You can say that the correct way of doing it, as per the layer architecture repository layer should
be the one which should touch DB.
Okay, so apart from this three layers, there are certain uh, other you can say that packages which
we create as spring.
So one very important is this DTO this is not a layer.
This is you can say that the additional packages we create okay.
So one is DTO.
What is dto?
Let me explain you.
Okay, so see DTO is generally you can say that data transfer object.
Okay.
So now let's say that client is hitting certain post API and they are sending certain body the data
in the body.
Let's say certain ID 123 certain number uh number card or card number.
Let's say certain my card number 54321.
So certain information coming it from the post API.
The client which is sending.
So in the DTO data transfer object.
So generally there are two type we can create.
One is request DTO one is response DTO.
So in the request DTO, what we do is we map App.
The data, which is coming from the client or outside our component to this DTO request DTO so that
our business layer repository whatever gonna work with gonna work with the request DTO not with the
fields which are coming from the external API, like the clients which you are initiating.
Why?
Because let's say that in future the schema got changed and let's say its ID name got changed to certain,
uh, certain this thing like identification, uh, from ID name change to identification or let's say
sequence number.
Okay.
So we have to change at all the places where this ID is used.
So it has to be changed to sequence number.
But if you are using request DTO then at the controller layer itself.
So controller layer takes the responsibility of doing the mapping.
ping from, uh, the parameters from API parameter to request DTO.
And now everywhere everyone works on the request DTO.
So only this controller class will get impacted if any of the schema got changed.
Because this is the place where we are doing the mapping.
Okay.
Similarly, the response DTO.
So now let's say that service layer calls the response repository layer.
Hey fetch me the data repository layer, get the data and return it.
Is it a good way that in the DB, let's say if we have a column name as uh card certain card ID, let's
say I'm just taking that card ID so is it a good way that we return the card ID in the response itself,
our DB column name?
No.
So what we do is the service layer do the mapping, whatever the values which are coming from repository
of a DB, map it to the response DTO what ultimately goes out of your system?
Right.
And we will map it and return it in the response.
DTO.
Okay.
So you got like what DTO is data.
Data transfer object then utility.
Utility is like in the utility as the name says, that put anything which is common across service layer
or repository.
In service layer you might be creating multiple classes.
Class one, class two, class three, class four.
And they might be have certain.
They might want to use certain common method.
Right.
So that common method we can put into utility generally helper methods.
So they can call that utility methods.
So generally utility method you can say that helper methods which is generally common among more than
one classes.
Okay then you have entity.
So in the entity is uh, so classes generally annotated with like this annotation entity.
And these are the pojos.
And let's say for example class employee.
So now let's say it has uh id string employee name and the getters and setters.
So it's just a Pojo.
Certain fields ID name and it's get get method and set method.
And we have annotated with at the entity.
So this is a direct representation of our table.
Which table employee table employee table would have two columns.
One would be ID another would be name.
Right.
So this entity.
Whatever the classes we put into the entity packages, they are the direct representation of our table.
And what generally happens is let's say you want to insert the data service layer, want to insert the
data.
So what they do is they will create an object of entity.
They put the values here and then call repository.
They insert this object like so.
Now internally whether JDBC, JPA which you are using, they will ultimately map to the corresponding
columns and the table.
They will update it.
Similarly when you are fetching the data from the repository.
So it has to let's say you are fetching select.
Asterisk from employee something.
Now it will return certain rows let's say list of what list of what.
It will return some rows.
Right.
List of what Word list of this employee entity.
List of employee entity.
This query will ultimately return.
So our spring JPA JDBC internally do this mapping.
So we will come to that point how they do it.
But understand that what entity is entity is just classes which are direct representation of our tables.
So they have the same field name is exactly the same what we have in the column of that particular table.
So they are just normal simple Pojo classes fields and their getter and setter.
Right.
So generally entities are used by repositories mostly.
And then we have configuration.
So there is something called application dot property files.
We will see that.
So there we can put configuration.
So like certain you want to increase uh certain timeout value uh or you want.
So there are a lot of configurations comes in.
Right.
So in our code let's say uh you want to put certain value let's say int val equals to ten.
This hard coded generally is avoided in your code base.
There should not be any hard coded value.
It should be driven through configuration so that in future it can be changed without doing code changes.
Okay.
So that's where we can put configuration in application dot properties.
We can put that okay.
Let's say that value equals to ten today okay.
And in here we can use instead of ten certain like config dot value I'm just taking so that it will
read from config.
It will read that value.
In future you need to change from ten to let's say 20.
You don't need code changes.
Simply config dot value right in the config you can change it.
No code changes required.
We can directly push the configuration.
Okay.
So this is the generally the layered architecture.
Okay.
So I've created controller.
So created a controller.
So this controller package has the class which has at the rate rest controller.
Okay.
So it has one get mapping ID.
So now what it will do first.
So this ID right.
So what first it is doing is using the DTO right.
So what I am doing is so here Paymentrequest is a DTO.
This is a request DTO because I am not forwarding this ID into my service layer.
Because if in future this ID value get changed, I don't want my service layer to get changed also.
So in the DTO, first I set this.
So I'm setting this value into here in my internal DTO.
Okay.
So first mapping is done.
Then what controller does is it passes to the service layer that hey fetch, get the payment details
by ID and this is my internal DTO.
Go ahead.
Now the request goes to your service.
This is the service.
Payment service.
So what payment service do is payment service interact with the repository.
So there it has dependency on repository.
So it tells repository that hey get the payment by this ID and this is the DTO right.
And uh it goes to the repository.
So this is the repository has payment repository.
So here if you see at the repository and on the service at the rate service was there.
So now what repository will do.
Repository has to connect with the DB and fetch the details.
So for example execute query, I have just written that it will connect with db and fetch the data.
We will see how it will connect maybe in the later classes.
Uh, but uh in the this session we will see that okay.
Assume that it connected to the DB and fetch the data.
So ultimately the data comes into the hit the query and we get into the entity.
Because in Java everything is object, right?
Whatever the data you get from DB you will get into some object.
So that's why I created entity payment entity.
So now let's say that I have a table which has this 41234 uh details.
So it will return me certain entity okay.
And ultimately what it will do is it will return this entity back to the service.
Now what service will do.
Service.
Service will do a mapping.
Mapping from our entity which correspond to our DB table to the response DTO.
So here payment response.
So this is our DTO.
And but the response okay.
So in this fields I will send back to the client.
So this fields name would be different than what my DB tables names are DB table column names are so
but I do just a mapping.
So okay.
And after doing the mapping the service returns to the.
Your controller.
Ultimately it goes to the controller.
And what controller will do.
It will send the response back okay to the client and send the response.
Spring boot application.
Now let's start it.
So started.
Now let's hit this API.
So my Tomcat started on 8080.
Now Let's see.
Hit it.
So see we got the response payment ID amount currency and all.
So this might be details get from DB and we return in the response.
So in the payment repository we have set this values right.
So we assume that we get this data from db in the entity.
And then we return back right.
And here if you see that I am setting here set payment amount payment amount.
But the what field I'm getting amount.
Why.
Because I have done a mapping in the service uh service layer right.
So I have done a mapping this amount currency.
So these fields are different than what my db db uh table columns is okay.
So if you have any issue with setting up this project, uh, let's discuss in the comment section.
Okay.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Maven and its Lifecycle ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the next topic of Springboot that is Maven right.
This is you can say that the most underestimated topic.
We generally think it's just mostly Maven to build generation.
Nothing much more than that.
But today I will show you what all things Maven can do.
Why it is very important to know about Maven and how it makes our developer life easy.
Okay, so let's start with the newest topic in Springboot that is Maven.
So Maven is a project management tool, not just build management tool or build generation tool.
No, it's a project management tool which helps developer with build generation.
So it's just one part of it, right?
Also dependency resolution documentation.
And there are lot many other functionality which Maven provide Okay, so Maven uses Palm Project Object
model to achieve this.
So whenever we give Maven command right.
Let's say Maven Maven install.
Maven you can see that there are another component deploy.
We will go through this commands.
But whenever what I am trying to say whenever we give this commands to Maven what Maven first do is
it look for Pom.xml in the current directory from the directory.
Currently you are running this command.
So it looks for pom.xml and then try to look for the configuration.
What it has to do with this.
Okay.
So Maven is highly dependent.
You can say that Pom dot XML.
Okay.
So if you remember before Maven there is something called ant which was very popular.
Okay, so in the end we have to tell generally what to do and how to do.
In Maven.
Generally we have to only tell what to do, what to do, how to do.
That's now Maven is taking care of Maven knows that okay.
You only tell me what to do, how to do.
I will take care of it.
For example, we have given this command maven install for example.
Now we tell Maven what to do.
Okay you have to install.
How?
I haven't tell.
Now that Maven will take care of it.
What?
Okay.
You have.
Tell me what you have to do now.
How to do it that Maven will achieve in.
And we have to tell what to do and also how to do it.
We have to provide the step sequence of steps to achieve what we have to do.
Okay.
So advantage of it is, uh, one is that it simplifies the developer with various tasks like build generation,
dependency resolution, documentation and lot more things.
And also it only we have to provide what to do to it, right.
What tasks we have to do, how that maven's take care of it.
Okay.
Clear.
Like what's the advantage maven's provide why Maven exists, right?
So if you remember, this is the Maven project structure, which it follows okay.
And if you remember in the previous video where we have, uh, downloaded or set up the Spring Boot
project and we have selected the Maven.
So this project got, uh, downloaded right with one class, spring boot application in this package
are learning spring boot.
This is our, uh, the app name which we give and source main Java.
And this is what we provided into the, uh, group ID artifact.
And if you remember.
So this is the package how the maven follows.
And there would be one pom.xml.
So this is what generally maven project structure is.
So whatever your app name is it will first create its directory.
Then in the main directory itself you will have Pom okay.
Then there you have source main Java okay.
So source main Java.
And there you provided in the spring boot we have provided this three.
Right.
So it create a package like this.
Com concept and coding learning spring boot.
These three things we have provided while creating a spring boot project if you remember.
And this is one Java application class It will create like this.
Okay.
And here if you see in the source parallel you will find one package of test and then the same Java
com and the same name, the same project structure.
And it's equivalent test class.
Right.
So this is generally unit test cases where we will write in this class for this.
For this Java class we will write unit test cases in this okay.
So here if you see that we have source.
Source.
They have test in parallel the same Java.
Com concept coding learning spring boot and spring boot application test okay.
So this is the project structure for Maven which generally follows.
And that's why you see this kind of structure when we downloaded the project from the Spring Boot using
Maven.
If you have selected Gradle, might be some other structure got downloaded which Gradle supports.
But for Maven this is the project structure which Maven supports.
Okay.
Now when the project got downloaded right.
So this Pom.xml we got right.
So the same Pom.xml I have copied here, and I will show you what exactly it is like, how to read this
Pom.xml what generally the meaning of each properties and elements defined here.
Okay, so here if you see the first part, this project okay.
This first part what here you will see certain kind of schema schema location okay.
So what is it.
It specify the XML schema.
Also make sure that our XML adheres to the correct structure and version defined by the Maven.
So whatever the XML, you can say that the rules it has provided in this schema.
This should be the name.
Okay.
Inside this parent you can have group ID artifact version only.
You can't by default use.
Hey, can I write this?
Uh, here something x y z x y z.
Close.
Can I do something?
No it is.
This XYZ is not defined in the schema of the parent inside this.
So we can't write something like randomly.
It has to follow properly.
What in within this element.
What all things can we write.
Right.
So it should follow certain schema here.
If you see the parent part this one this is used to define the parent project.
The project, if you remember, which we have downloaded from Spring Boot.
Right.
So the form which we got.
So in the form you will see this parent block means this is the child form.
Child form of what.
It's a child form of this.
So in Maven each pom dot XML is a child of some other form.
Right.
If it is, if you have defined this.
So currently it's a child of this this project form.
So whatever this project.
So these are you know that group ID and artifact ID uniquely identify a particular project in the Maven
central.
Okay.
So in this project this is the version there would be some Pom.xml.
So that would be parent of this bomb parent.
Okay.
So each Pom has one parent.
If there is no parent defined in the pom, let's say that if there is no parent defined in the Pom,
then Maven automatically by default.
Make inherited from a super Pom.
So in Maven every pom which you are writing right internally by default it's a child of super Pom.xml
okay.
So generally in our case in our Pom the Pom.xml which got downloaded in our project, this one which
got downloaded with the project, it is given that it's a child of this, this project.
So spring boot starter parent spring boot.
some starter parent project.
Its pom.xml.
So this is its parent and this itself might be a child of super Pom dot XML.
Okay.
So you got it.
So this there could be some other uh there could be some other parent for this one.
Or if no, then it ultimately would be a child of this.
So we can in simple terms, we can say that super Pom is something which is at the top of the hierarchy.
Now whatever the Pom you will create, whether this or this.
Generally it's a child of this super pom only.
Okay.
So the parent used to define the parent project current project inherit the configuration from specified
parent project.
So our project and is inherited the configurations from here.
So in our pom.xml If you see this is very small.
Pom.
Right.
There is not much configuration.
Why?
Because it might be using the configuration from its parent in its parent.
It might have provided lot of configurations.
Right.
So since it's a child of it it will use its configuration whatever its dependencies, all the dependency
which this parent has or the configuration which parent has all will automatically comes to your child
also.
So if this parent field is not specified, Maven by default inherit the configuration from super form.
So this is the link of the Maven super form I have provided.
Okay, so you can check out the super form dot HTML here.
There are lot of configurations.
By default configurations are available which generally comes to your project.
This configuration and dependencies okay.
So you understood what is the meaning of this?
Parent means our project is generally a child of this project, actually.
This three parts.
I have already informed you, right?
In the previous when we created this Springboot project group ID artifact id version, this three uniquely
identify our project which we are creating.
So this is the company name.
Generally you can say this is your ultimately the project name.
And this is the version currently.
So this uniquely identified your project in the Maven Central.
Okay then we have something called properties.
So what is property is it's a key value pair for configuration right.
So this is a key.
This is a value okay.
So it can be referenced throughout the XML file.
So now in all other XML file I can use this property.
This key.
How?
Let's say in this dependency group ID artifact id and let's say I want to use certain version.
I can use like that that let's say version I can do like this dollar this Java version Java dot version
close.
So now this dollar Java dot version.
Ultimately what Maven will do it will check in the properties.
Hey for this key is there any value defined.
Yes 17 is defined.
So this will get ultimately with replaced with.
710 okay.
So anything which you define in properties.
It's a generally a key value.
And then this key can be referenced anywhere in the in this form.
Okay.
Now let's see the next property which is like repositories.
So what does it do.
This is from Maven.
Look for dependent project dependency and download the artifact jars.
So here if you see that in this this repository we have defined it one URL.
Okay.
So what this URL is this is the like URL from where you want to download your dependencies.
So this is the next if you see we have a list of dependencies.
First is this.
This is our first dependency.
Then this is our second dependency.
Now from where this dependency will get resolved.
From this.
Okay, so this is where this is from where Maven look for project dependency and download the jars.
Right.
So this is generally you can say that I have written it for you.
But here if you see in the project which is downloaded you will find that this is missing.
This is not there.
Generally this is added, uh, this is a by default which Maven added.
You can say that maybe in the super pom.xml you might find that that this is by default value is present.
If you don't add it from its parent Pom this will get added.
So by default it will always download from Maven Central only by default.
So even if you don't write this, maybe if you go and check in Super Pom you will find this.
So that's why it is not required to add it here.
And even in the pom.xml which you downloaded, if you double check, you won't find it because I have
added just to show you that from where it downloaded the dependency.
So till till dependency is all clear right now.
Actual maven starts when you see the build this build element.
And before I tell you about this build you first need to understand the build lifecycle.
Then only you would be able to understand why we have to provide this build.
What is the usage?
Deep dive into this.
But first let's understand the build lifecycle.
So below is the maven build lifecycle.
So let's say that first is validate.
So this first phase is Phases.
Validate phase.
What is the second phase?
Second phase is compile.
We will see each phase in depth.
But I'm telling you that these are the sequence.
First phase.
Second phase.
Third phase is what test.
Okay.
So first it will validate the project structure.
Second it will compile the source code.
In the third phase it will do the testing it do unit it.
Run the test cases.
In the fourth phase what it will do it will package means it will package the compile code into this
jar.
Fifth phase.
Fifth phase is verify.
It will verify the integrity of this package.
Sixth phase is install the package into local repository and the final and the seventh phases, deploy
where it will deploy the package into the remote repository.
So we will see each seven phases in depth.
And then after that you can say that yes you are clear with Maven.
But one thing you have to say that these all are sequential steps.
Let's say that if you want to run package phase, which one is the package phase?
Fourth phase, then all its previous phase will also get executed first.
So now let's say if you say that hey, I only want to run this phase when you give the command to run
this phase only then all its previous phase first will get completed.
This will get completed first.
This will get completed first and then only this will run.
Okay.
So there are you can say that sequential.
So there are different phases right.
So these are all phases.
And each phases has goals.
Multiple goals.
Goals one.
Goal two.
There can be different goals.
So first phase can have multiple goals.
Second phase can have multiple goals.
So consider goal as nothing but a task.
In first phase validate phase there can be multiple tasks.
Second phase is your compile phase.
There can be 2 or 3 tasks which it might be doing right.
So that's what I have written here.
If you want to run a specific task of a particular phase, for example, again let's say for the package
inside a package, there are let's say goal one, goal two, Goal five.
Let's say there are multiple goals in the package.
This is your phase four.
Now let's say that hey, I want to execute this goal and there could be more goal.
Let's say.
So this is nothing but a task which is happening in this phase.
Okay.
So you want to perform this task.
So to perform this task first it will goes in sequence.
It will perform all the tasks of this phase, all the tasks, all the goals of this phase, all the
tasks of this phase.
And in the fourth phase it will perform all the its previous tasks, this task, this task and till
this task.
So.
Got it.
If you want to do any particular task, if you want to run a particular task, then all its previous
phases and their tasks will also get completed.
If you want to add a specific task in a specific phase.
Maven provide the functionality of flexibility to add it.
Let's say that, for example, in this install in the sixth phase, what is the sixth phase is install.
There are three tasks.
Task one.
Task two.
Task three.
In the sixth phase of install, this is the phase.
There are, let's say three tasks.
Now you want that.
Hey, I want to add another task for in the in this phase.
In the install phase.
How you can do it through build.
Okay.
So this build element help you to add a new task Inside one of this phase.
So this is the validate first phase is your validate.
What validate does is it validate the project structure.
Okay.
So here if you see that Maven already has this validate phase and it is executing its task.
But if you want to add more tasks and we can use build element and add the goal to a specific phase.
So now what is the command to run the validate Maven validate.
So now here if you see what I am doing here I am adding a new plugin.
I am adding a new plugin.
This would be inside build.
Build close.
Like this.
Inside this build we are writing a plugins, write plugins and then writing a plugin.
So I'm writing a new task here.
I am writing a new task here.
So this is the group ID, this is the artifact ID this maven already support plugin, right?
Maven has so many plugins, you can either create your own task or you can already Maven which supports
you can uh, whatever the Maven support, you can add it based upon your project need.
So this is one plugin which Maven support.
So in this these are the coordinates where it will go and download what task it is.
Now here if you see in the execution we are this is the task okay.
And here if you see this task is added to which phase validate phase okay.
So Maven already has this default phases.
Each phases already has different uh defined goals which Maven by default has it.
What it has to do.
But if you have a requirement to add more tasks, this is how you can do.
And you can also provide the configuration.
If any configuration requirement is to read, it will read this.
So what ultimately doing is this plugin.
This plugin.
Right.
What actually does is it do the check style.
It will validate your check style.
For example uh my code Styles.xml.
There should be if there should be like a space between that certain a code check style.
So it will validate that that your code is following a particular style or not.
Every company has different code style.
Some follows this, some follows this right.
So they want to have a different structure.
So you can use that.
So you can enforce it here in the validate phase itself before compiling itself, it will first validate.
So you got it.
The second is compile compilation of source code.
You already know what compilation will do.
Okay.
So it will convert your Java code to.
Byte code dot class files.
Okay.
So we have to run the command Maven compile.
And when we run the Maven compile you know that it is following a sequence.
So even though we are running this command Maven compile directly this phase.
But first it will also complete the validate phase also.
So it will validate and compile your code and put it under target.
Classes will show you.
So now let's say I have run this command Maven compile.
So this is the project right on the same project.
If I run Maven compile, then this project, what it will do is.
So here if you see.
This is the phase it is running.
You won't find validate phase.
Because I told you Maven doesn't validate anything like it doesn't restrict you.
Whatever how you want to write a code, you can write it.
But in case you want, you can add this plugin.
Like you can go through and check different plugins and you can add for validate.
But here if you see when you do Maven compile.
So this phase runs and what it does is it generated the it internally do Java C.
And now now understand this I didn't tell I haven't tell Maven that Add do Java.
See something?
I just told him compile.
Maven.
Compile.
I told him what to do.
How to do.
I didn't tell it, but internally it has this plugins, right?
So what it will do is it when this command comes right.
Maven compile.
So what it will do is it will Maven will look for Pom dot XML and it look for this maven something called
compile plugin in our Pom.
It's not there but might be in super Pom it would be there.
So in Super Pom it would be having certain coordinates group ID artifact ID version.
So Maven will use that and fetch whatever the details it has to fetch.
So there Maven has already provided all the Maven has already all the details.
How to compile the code, whether through Java, C or is there any other way?
It's their headache.
We don't know, right?
But internally it uses Java C and it moves the classes to this target.
So here if you see this is our project source main Java.
This is our package.
This is the classes which we wrote.
And here and after Maven compile you will see new folder comes into the picture.
After this test there is something called target comes in inside target classes.
And if you see that there are all the dot classes files comes in.
So these are the bytecode for this.
So you got it.
So this is I was saying so previously ant was popular there.
We have to tell what to do and how to do.
So this is just one example of how we used to do like in 20 1516.
Like we have to say that, okay, compile, this is the project and we have to do compile where this
is the we provide, this is the destination directory where you have to put the compile code.
And we also put that you have to do this Java C okay.
So here if you see that we are providing it that okay you have to compile.
So what.
And here we provide the command also Java C.
How.
So what.
And how what both we provided to the.
And so read all the files within this folder.
Put it here.
How this.
But in Maven this is abstracted.
Now only we tell them Maven compile and now this.
All this logic is now abstracted within Maven code base.
You can say that Maven Central.
It might have certain plugins.
So it's like a plug and play.
That plugin you just plug in your pom and it will work.
Okay so third one is test.
So when you know that what is the command maven test.
So now when we run this Maven test you know that first it will run validate.
Second it will run compile.
And then only it will run test.
So it will validate compile and then run the test cases in your project.
So this is our project right.
This is the class.
And let's say this is the test class which is inside a test package.
I have already told you this is the structure of Maven inside this test class.
Let's say I have written one unit test case.
So this is unit test cases.
I have just simply written System.out.println.
Concept and coding test case running.
Now I am running Maven test so it will do first validate validate.
Generally Maven doesn't do anything and we also haven't added anything.
Then second it will do compile.
It did the compiling.
And the third it is running the test.
So in compilation it didn't do anything because nothing to compile because already everything is compiled.
Because I have just done the compilation.
So already everything is compiled.
So that's why it didn't compile.
So that's why it said that nothing to compile.
All classes are up to date, but here it follows the sequence.
First it goes to the compile and then only it comes to the test.
And then it run all the tests, all the test cases, unit test cases inside this folder.
And here it will see that concept encoding test is running.
It should get printing over here somewhere.
Yeah.
Concept encoding task is running.
It got printed.
Build success.
Okay, so this phase is clear.
The next phase is package.
The command is Maven package.
Now, you know we are trying to run this phase.
This phase?
When it runs, it has to run its previous phases also.
What it will do, whatever the compile code which we got right, it will create a jar out of it.
First complete, validate compile, then test, and then run the package phase in which it generates
a Jar file or dot file.
Whichever you have selected, we have selected dot jar in our spring boot.
So when I run Maven package command.
So validate is nothing.
So this is then it do compile phase, then test phase.
This is the test phase is running and our test cases ran.
And after the test cases it will do the jar phase.
This is your fourth.
And if you see that where it put the jar into.
So it's building the jar.
Into this target here.
So earlier this is our package right after compilation and all.
So after Maven package in the target itself you will see this jar get constructed.
Right now this jar you can share with someone, they can add it as a dependency.
You can deploy it right.
So this now has everything.
It's packed.
Everything.
Whatever is required for our project to run.
Okay.
It is bundled of everything.
So you got it.
Maven package.
What it does, it creates a jar and put into under this target folder.
Okay.
After that package.
What is the fifth phase?
Fifth phase is verify.
Maven verify.
So generally also here Maven doesn't force you to verify anything.
So might be currently I don't think there is any task present here.
It but we can add it right.
So let's say my I want I, I want to add one verify phase that I want to check the integrity of the
package.
Like so I want to do static code analysis.
Static code analysis like checks apart from unit test cases.
Static code analysis means like, uh, if if your if the code has some unused variable unused import
empty catch block.
No usage of object duplicate code.
I want to find all these things and report it as a warning or might be something, right.
So I can add a plugin which does all this thing so I can add it in the verify phase.
So here if you see that I am adding a new plugin.
So I provided the coordinate to the Maven.
Hey this is the PMD.
So PMD has provided all this functionality.
PMD tool can all do all these things.
So this is the coordinate where this PMD we can download the dependency right.
And in this PMD this is the goal.
This is the task we wanted to do right out of this plugin.
There might be multiple goals or multiple tasks.
I want only this PMDD task.
So this PMDD task does all these things.
And I want to put it into which phase?
Verify phase.
Okay.
So how it does this?
We don't know.
Some some company or some other, some developer have built this and deployed it into the Maven.
And it's open source.
We can use it now.
We are using this in our code base.
This is way so we can provide it code in it.
The task name which they have given we can tell them okay, this is the task name which we have to perform
and put it into this phase.
Verify phase.
Okay.
Now when you do Maven verify what it will do.
It will first validate compile test package and then run the check for all this issues.
If it find anything then it will report you.
Okay.
Your sixth phase is install command is maven install.
So when you do the install you have validated your code.
You have your byte code dot class file.
You have run the test cases.
You have dot jar file.
Right.
Currently in the target folder you have also verified that everything is good.
There is no static analysis or if you want you can add more verify like checksum signature anything
right.
So verification is also done.
Now you want to install.
Install means you want to install the package this dot jar file into the local repository.
Now understand this what is local repository.
So in Maven this is something that this is.
Your system.
So let's say me.
So this is me.
This is my system.
Okay.
And let's say this is.
Maven central.
This is public.
Okay.
This is where so many repositories are available okay.
So whatever this jar file is created there is something called local repository here in my system.
So local repository.
Is lies.
There is in my system okay.
And this is when this dot jar file I have to deploy it somewhere outside my system that is known as
remote repository.
So let's say in this case Maven Central can be your remote repository.
If you are working in a company, then you are within a network where your company has managing your
remote repository.
So whatever the jar file you will upload, it will get uploaded here.
Not to Maven which is public.
It will get.
So this is your remote.
But in simple terms local repository is something in your own system, right?
And remote repository is something is outside of your system.
I will tell you how you can configure that.
Whether I should be using this and my company somewhere, a repository or Maven central repository.
How to do that, I'll tell you.
But what it will do package what this Maven install Maven install will do.
It will install the dot jar package dot jar package into the local maven repository, which is typically
located in your user home directory.
If you are using a mac then it will go under here.
Right.
So your home then dot m2 folder will get created and repository.
So when you will download Maven right.
When you will download Maven right.
Then you will find that this maven will create this repository, this folder, this path will create.
So whenever you do install so it will deploy the it will install this dot jar package.
Inside this path and this path you can configure you can change it Get right.
So there is something called settings.xml in this M2 folder itself.
In this M2 folder there is something called settings.xml file.
In the settings.xml file there is something called local repository.
So you can change this path.
Then whenever you do maven install right.
So all your dependencies, uh, all your jar package will goes to that path, not to this path.
Okay.
So here is like this is the generally the structure.
So whenever you download the maven you will see that M2 folder is also created in your home page.
Inside M2 you will find Settings.xml.
And also you will find a repository folder okay.
Currently you will find only this this three m2 Repository folder and settings.xml.
That's all.
Now when you will run Maven install, when you run Maven install, what it will do is it will copy all
the dependencies jar into this path and it will follow the path.
So it will create like Com concept encoding learning spring boot like you're the proper hierarchy it
will make.
And then it will ultimately put the snapshot dot jar file.
So earlier it was present under dot target right during package.
So during maven install it will put into this my local repository.
This is local repository.
And this path I don't want to put into under repository I want to create some other folder might say
my folder my folder.
And I wanted to put it here.
You can change it in the settings.xml.
You can change the path of the local repository or give whatever the path you wanted.
So the jar file will goes into that one.
Okay.
So here now here I am doing Maven install.
So it will do first validate then it will do second compile.
Then it will run test cases.
After running test cases what it will do it will do the package right.
It will do the package after running the package it will do verify.
I think we don't have verify.
And after that it do install.
So it do sequence of stop and during install whatever the jar file was created as part of first uh this
maven package, it will use that jar file and put it into from target, from target to your local repository
path dot m2 repository concept encoding this path, it will put it.
Okay.
And if you want to change it you can change it in Settings.xml.
So whenever you download a maven this dot m2 folder will be created, repository will be created, settings
will be created Settings.xml and you can change it as required.
Okay.
Got it.
So now whenever.
So now you have local repository.
And then you know that there is something called remote repository.
Remote repository.
Remote repository could be your company or the Maven central.
So whenever you have to download any dependency your palm dot XML maven Maven will first will give preference
to local repository.
It will check hey in the local repository.
Do I have this dependency or not?
If the dependency is not there then it will go to remote repository, downloaded it and put it into
the local.
Now again in future when it has to look, then it will look to the remote, uh, local and it will automatically
find it because it has already been put in the previous step itself.
So.
Got it.
So that's why local repository.
You can say that it helps so that we can avoid calling remote repository again and again during dependency
resolution also.
And the last step here in this is the seventh phase is deploy.
The command is Maven deploy.
And now you know that when you are doing this Maven deploy command, even if you are running this,
all this phases will run also.
But what it will do is it will deploy the dot jar file to remote repository.
Now remote repository could be your company central or could be Maven public which is public.
Its central whichever you will define I will tell you how you can define it.
So in the Pom dot XML you have to define something like this.
Distribution management.
Okay.
Distribution management.
Inside distribution management you have to tell repository where it has to deploy your remote repository
URL.
Okay, so if you see in your company the form which we have got in our form, the dependency management
is not there because it considers that we don't have to deploy.
It's just our internal learning purpose.
So we don't have to deploy our code to Maven Central or something.
So we don't have this.
But if you want to deploy.
So you have to put the URL where you have to deploy in.
If you are working in a company then check your company's form.
You will you will find that you have provided your company's URL here.
So whenever you do Maven deploy, it will go to your company central somewhere, right?
And you for connecting it you might need to provide the username password also.
Right.
Because we can't just connect to any URL and upload the jar file there.
You have to authenticate yourself.
So the the username password generally we put into Settings.xml.
In the settings.xml there is something called server you can add.
And in that the ID is your remote repository ID and the username password you can give remote repository
username and password.
So with this username password it can connect to your uh this URL.
And it will upload the jar there.
But there is no default uh maven provide.
So if you for our code here, if you see that you won't find any dependency management, you won't find
any, uh, not dependency distribution management.
You won't find any distribution management and remote repository.
If you run the Maven deploy for our current project, right, you will face the below error build failure
y deployment failure repository element was not specified in the Pom inside distribution management
element.
So you have to add it.
So now let's say that if you don't want to deploy this, uh, to your company or something, you want
to deploy it to the Maven Maven Central, you can provide the Maven central URL and Maven central URL.
No, there is no need for username and password because it's public.
Uh, there is no username password.
You can keep it empty, right?
So this is the URL for the Maven central.
If I add this distribution management in our pom right.
And run this Maven deploy it will I can deploy it to the Maven central.
Then you also can download that from Maven with this group ID artifact ID version.
This is the coordinate you can.
Now once it got to the Maven central anybody can download this then.
You got it.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot Controller Layer Annotations ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And in today's topic I will cover all these annotations which are covered in yellow.
The green.
This is spring boot application I have already covered in the first part introduction to Spring Boot
uh, where I will explaining about the difference between spring MVC and Spring Boot.
Right?
Do you remember?
So let's focus on this yellow annotations today.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So I think you can recall this diagram from the first introduction to Spring Boot where the dispatcher
servlet, whenever any user hit any API let's say fetch user get call.
So what dispatcher servlet will do.
It will make use of handler mapping to identify the controller which can handle this request okay.
So what all the annotations which generally you can say that uh Helps are doing this handling mapping
handler mapping.
Right.
So we will see those.
So as part of this all the annotations which I am going to tell, I will tell you why it is required,
what the purpose it solves, but how exactly these annotations created how exactly Springboot or Java
understand read this annotations.
Those are beyond the scope of today's topic so that you will understand more about in the Java.
Like I have already mentioned, Java is the prerequisite, right?
So in Java Playlist Basics to advance, check out the eight in number video annotations I have covered
in depth.
You will get more better understanding.
Okay, so let's start that in the handler mapping.
If you see that the first and foremost is this annotation at the rate controller right on the second
is like you can also have at the rate rest controller They are same, they solve the same purpose with
a minor, very minor difference.
So what?
At the rate controller and at the rate rest controllers tell to the spring.
So it indicates that this class is responsible for handling incoming HTTP requests.
So there can be let's say 100 of controller classes.
So spring boot will include this also.
Right.
Then determine whether this particular controller class can be used for to handle any specific API which
user has invoked or not.
That is again it has to determine that will see.
But at least this controller will this classes which has this annotations actually get it into the list
of controller classes.
Because the only these classes spring boot will consider that.
Yes, you guys are eligible to handle the HTTP request.
Okay, so what is the difference between add the rate controller and add the rate rest controller.
So there is a very minor difference that add the rate rest controller is your controller plus response
body annotation here.
If you see in the controller class every method.
I have used at the rate response body, but in the rest controller here.
If you see in every method I haven't used at the rate response body.
So what does at the rate response body annotations mean?
So at the rate response body tells that the return type of the method, the return type of the method
should be considered as your HTTP response.
Right?
So if you don't write this, let's say what would happen if you don't write at the rate response body?
What spring boot will do whatever the return type.
So return type is a string.
So let's say I am instead of returning this big I am returning.
Let's say just hello I am returning just hello.
So what Spring Boot will do is Spring boot will try to resolve this.
So it will consider as the name of a view and it will try to resolve this.
Let's say hello.
So it will try to say that.
Hey hello dot JSP.
Is there any view like this.
It will try to look for it and then if it finds it it will try to render it on the UI.
Okay.
But with the response body we are specifically telling to the spring boot that hey, this is not a view
which you have to render.
This is a HTTP response Body, right?
Sand.
Sand as it is.
Don't consider it as a view.
Consider it as a rest response.
Okay, but now you can tell.
Hey, for the rest controller, why this response body is not required on this.
Each method.
Why?
Because here if you see that in the rest controller, rest controller is nothing but a controller with
response body, right?
So you don't specifically have to mention at every method that the response type should.
Spring boot should not consider the response type as a view name.
Consider this as a rest http response only.
So that's why generally you can say that everywhere you will find we are using Rest controller rather
than controller, because it's pretty convenient that you don't have to put rest response body in each
method.
Okay, now here is the second part here.
If you see that something called request mapping which actually does the mapping of a API okay.
So now we have defined the controller class.
Now we have defined the controller class that okay this is the class I have called it a controller.
This is the class I have called it Rest controller okay.
So what all APIs this controller is hosting.
So now I am writing those what all APIs this controller is hosting.
So let's say this is one API slash get call.
Fetch user.
And another is let's say post.
Save user.
Let's say these two APIs I want to host into this controller.
So how how I can do that using request mapping.
So now let's say this is the method I have written.
Get user detail here I have all the business logic to go search in DB or do whatever, get the details
of the user and return it.
But now I want to map this API that whenever a user invoke this API, this particular method should
get invoked.
Okay, so what I have to do is first of all the starting point of the method.
This method should be hosted in controller.
You know already why?
Because dispatcher servlet only considered controllers only.
Okay, so this method the all the logic right.
So generally this method should be present into controller.
And now we have to add the mapping.
Mapping of what this API to this method we have to map it.
So this is annotation called at the request mapping.
Right.
As the name says that it is mapping the request to what to this method.
So here if you now go and check this annotation at the request mapping.
You will find certain methods right.
So one of the thing is parameter is like path.
What is the path or what is the your API path slash fetch user.
So I have defined slash fetch user.
So here I can also use value right.
So here if you see that here they have told either you can use value or path and they have given the
alias.
So value is considered alias for path and this path is alias for value.
So whatever names suit you better you can use that to understand.
So I always find link with that path is actually which defines this URL.
So I mostly use path.
The second is like method whether it's a Get request port or Post request put request delete request.
You can use here.
So there is something called method.
So you can choose like whether it's a get post put patch delete whatever it request is.
You can tell right now here if you see that this annotation request mapping annotation it has this two
annotations also at the rate mapping at the rate reflective.
So this annotations what generally spring boot denotes to the spring boot that it has to do the mapping.
Here the mapping logic.
So see all this logic is generally internal to spring boot and it is resolved through reflection.
Right.
It is resolved through reflection which you will get to know how uh, in this uh annotation.
So all the annotations are resolved through reflection only.
So in the request mapping these two annotations actually helps doing the mapping.
So here if you see this at the rate reflective controller mapping reflective processor.
So here what it is doing controller mapping reflective processor.
So if you go internally and check right what it is doing is it is doing actually the reflection.
And it is ultimately task is to do the controller mapping.
As the name suggests it's do the mapping.
Okay.
This controller has all can handle all this APIs.
Let's say get API is handled by sample controller.
This API is handled by also sample controller.
So all this mapping is generally happen here in the reflective part in the second uh alternative here.
If you see I have used this like instead of this line, I have used it like this at the rate get mapping.
Now if you see at the rate get mapping.
So at the rate get mapping is nothing but a request mapping.
But with a method request method dot get.
So ultimately what it is just simplifying or adding little bit more readability that this method equals
to get.
You don't have to now write it specifically in the get mapping it is specifically set.
The default value of this method is get only.
You just have to give the path right.
Since get mapping is also a request mapping, you will have all the values path value and all would
be present.
So you can give path that this is the fetch user, right?
Similarly, if you have a Post request you can write post mapping.
So both are right.
But generally you can say that this is mostly preferred because of easy readability.
And also just to notice one more thing that this request mapping right.
You can also write at a class level.
Now let's say your API is something like this.
At the rate API slash fetch user at the API slash save user.
So now here if you see these are the common In all the APIs which you are hosting in this controller.
Then instead of writing like here, path equals to slash API slash fetch user slash API slash save user.
What it will do is at the class level, we can use a mapping and provide a value or path, whichever
you feel right and provide the common path.
So at the API is common right.
So you can provide at the top.
And in the below one you can just write the remaining path right.
So it will ultimately get appended.
So whenever the mapping will actually happen.
So mapping would happen like at the API slash fetch user.
Right.
This is the get call.
It belongs to which controller.
This controller sample controller right.
And which method it has to invoke.
It has to invoke this.
Get user details like that.
So these mappings will be done because that logic is still present in the request mapping only.
Okay.
So so now you understand this controller Rest controller.
What's the difference between them.
Response body.
Also we know request mapping I have already told you.
So the next we have is something called request parameter.
So here if you see that uh let's see this API.
So in this API this is nothing but a host.
This is your path right?
This is your path like slash API slash fetch user.
And after this question mark you will see this is your first request parameter.
This is your second separated by end.
And this is your third separated by end.
Okay.
So there are three request parameter.
So request parameter is generally started after question mark.
It helps to bind the request parameter to controller method parameter.
How.
So here I have created a very simple class sample controller.
I have annotated with Rest controller to tell the Springboot that this class.
Consider this class.
It might host certain APIs.
What API?
Now I am doing the mapping.
I have put the Rest request mapping at the request mapping to consider this as a common part.
So I put it at the above.
Now I have created this method which will host all the logic to get the user details.
Now this method.
I have done a mapping for this API path.
So I have put the Get request because it's a get call right.
So at the Get mapping I have put the path.
So it will do a mapping of this to this method.
Now this request parameter three request parameters I have to map it to this member method member method
variables.
So how I can map it through request parameter.
So here if you see that I have put at the request parameter and the name which I have used is like first
name exact naming here for this request parameter.
Right.
And the value of it will get set under this first name.
And there is also one more thing called required.
So default value is true.
So means let's say that for this first name I haven't held required, so means this is mandatory.
When a user invoke this API, right?
Right?
Then mapping will only be happen with this method when first name is present.
If first name is not present, it this this will not be invoked, right?
For the last name I have mentioned required equals to false.
So even if user do not pass the last name right, it would be considered as null.
Okay, so now let's see that with the one sample.
So here request mapping I have give value equals to first name.
Let's create one more at the rate request param or name equals to.
Because I told you either you can choose value or you can choose name or last Name, and I have mentioned
it that.
Required equals to false.
It is not required.
String last name so it user can send it in the API or can not send it.
So let's say output is fetch user details of the first name plus and last name.
I'll print this like what the last name comes okay.
And it will return it.
So generally I have used at the rate rest controller at the rate response body is not required.
Okay so let's try to hit it okay so I have started the server.
Now let's run it localhost.
API.
Slash fetch user.
First name equals to.
I am passing Shreyansh and I am not passing last name because that is not mandatory.
So I am not passing.
So what it says that fetch user details of shreyansh and last name is null.
But what if I miss the first name itself and I pass last name?
Now here, if you see that it's not able to resolve the API itself.
Why?
Because I have to tell that this is mandatory by default request parameter is true.
Okay, so the mapping happens such that the URL fetch user where first name should be present.
It should be present.
Then only this method should get invoked Vote okay.
So request parameter is clear right?
So now you need to understand that the framework Spring framework automatically perform type conversion
here from the request parameter string representation to a specific type.
So generally these all type conversion IT support primitive types.
IT support support wrapper string enums and custom object type.
So this part is clear right.
This is very simple.
Let's say you are passing at the rate API slash user question mark.
Age equals equals to 20 right.
Or age equals to anything.
Just what I am trying to say that any number.
So this is ultimately a string currently.
But in the API you write here API we are catching it in int right.
So there is some typecast Typecasting happen, right?
So that framework automatically performs so primitive type typecasting okay.
This is an integer.
This string this value can be type casted to integer.
Yes it will do.
So those typecasting it will perform.
But let's say that uh you want to specifically let's say uh 23 slash for slash 9099 something some date.
This is a string.
Now you want to typecast into particular date object.
This is my date.
So how this string will get typecast to date.
How you have to put certain logic right that you can do it through custom object type.
Right.
I will explain you this custom object type with very simple example, right?
This will help you clarify.
You can write your own custom object types also.
So understand this with this.
So very simple class right.
I have created a controller class with Rest controller.
Put a request mapping based API method one simple get method with this path which is mapped to this
method, right?
These are the three request parameters.
Now this is the first name.
Now my requirement is that whatever the first name should come, user can also give like this.
User can also give like this s h r y a n some all small, all big, some big, some small.
Because it's a string, right?
There is no guarantee how the data will come.
But before you assign this value to this.
method parameter.
You want to do certain kind of, let's say some type casting or certain your logic custom logic that
you can help do through property editor.
So this property editor or how we can use is there is something annotation called init binder.
So in this controller class I have written one init binder right.
I have put this annotation.
So what this annotation tells to the spring boot that.
Hey, for each method, whenever any API get invoked, first run this binder and see if any of its parameter
required certain pre-processing.
So what I am doing is here.
If you see that it accepts one parameter called binder it register, we can register our custom editor.
So I'm writing our custom editor.
So this is I have write a custom editor.
But what it accepts three parameters.
So first one is what should be the return type ultimately.
So it would be uh, so what is the string actually you want it right.
So I wanted string right.
So this string matches with this string dot class.
Right.
So string dot class.
Yes.
It matches this method parameter matches this.
And also check the name request param name.
First name okay.
Exactly.
Match this.
Then what is the property editor you have to run.
So I have written custom editor right.
So I have written my own custom editor.
I have written one class my first name property editor.
You have to extend it property editor support because this is the parameter which it accepts.
Property editor support.
So I have created a first name property editor child of this one.
So I have created an object of it.
So what it will do is it will invoke it set text, text.
Because everything which comes from the URI, it is nothing but a text.
Now it comes as a text.
Now you can do anything.
Now here, if you see that I have done the trimming and also make it to the lower case.
So even though I am passing the capital letter, ultimately it will do the trim and make it a small
case, right?
And then ultimately it will get set into the first name.
So you got it.
You can do custom object types also with this.
Then there is something called path variable.
So path variable is like used to extract the value from the path of the URL and bind it to the controller
method parameter.
So here if you see that at the rate API slash fetch user slash.
Let's say I pass.
This is 12345.
Like in the API itself, there is nothing like a question mark and value equals to 12345.
No those are request parameter.
This is path parameter within the path itself API path itself.
There is certain data you have provided right.
So you have to extract the value and push it into the method parameter okay.
So generally your API is like API slash fetch user slash certain id.
So generally this curly braces right.
This is like a dynamic.
Some value can come inside this 1234587 something some string.
You have to do the mapping.
So this is where we are done.
So this is a normal class simple class which are marked as Rest controller.
Put the base at the rest API.
Now this is the get call.
And I have done a mapping that this is the path fetch user first name first name.
So like it can come anything right?
Any string.
But I have given any.
This is the first name.
And now I have to fetch this value to a method parameter.
So this is the method it will map to because I have written this get mapping on top of it.
Now this is the at the path variable is the annotation which tells the spring boot that in this path
fetch out this first name, which is this part.
Let's say user is passing this, fetch out this right.
So value of for this first name and put it into this.
Like this.
Okay, so now there is something called request body.
So it bind the body of the HTTP request typically JSON or XML to controller method parameter Java object.
So here very very simple.
It's all simple.
So here if you see that the similar class I have created a controller class right in this method.
Right.
This is the API.
Let's say I am creating a post mapping.
So let's say this is the post request save user right.
And in the method parameter it's an object user object user object.
And I have put it as request body.
So now in the request body a JSON will come JSON object will come.
Now JSON object like this.
So I am passing in the request.
So here the data raw.
Here I'm passing JSON.
So it has username and email.
So those will ultimately get mapped to this user.
How Spring Boot might use either I think JSON or Jackson out of these two libraries using this tool
libraries.
This JSON object is typecast to this object from this JSON object to this Java object it construct,
right?
So it requests body.
I have annotated with request body means we are telling a spring boot that hey, whatever the API coming,
check out its body and whatever the data you see, you have to map it to this.
And in the user class I have created this user class and the user class I have created two things Thanks.
Username and email.
So now if you notice that email I have kept exactly same as this JSON key.
So JSON or Jason whatever library they can easily identify.
Okay, this name is exactly same as this.
So this value should be mapped to this.
But now here if you see that it is here user underscore name.
And here it is username.
So it will not get mapped.
But just to show you I have here tell that we can also do that put JSON property.
This is Jackson.
I have used I have put this annotation key that JSON property in the JSON.
This field user underscore name should get mapped to username right.
So and we have a getter setter get and setter keys.
So Jackson will invoke it to set the values.
So got it.
So now when this method gets invoked.
So user dot username you will find out this and user dot email you will find out this dummy value.
Okay.
And we have last thing is response entity.
So now it represent the entire HTTP response.
Till now you know two things controller and rest controller.
Controller.
You know that if you don't provide at the rate response body by default, spring boot will try to render
it.
Consider as a view name, right?
But the name rest controller inherently has at the rate response body right.
And the name itself like Rest controller.
So what ultimately does is us that all the response of this Rest controller is considered as an HTTP
response only, right?
So in this response entity, what response entity says that it represents the entire HTTP response?
So in response there are multiple parts.
We have body, we have status we have header.
So this response body which Rest controller has is nothing but this specific part.
It talks about this part right.
Response entity is like combination of all.
This is known as response entity.
So here in this one sample this method is returning response entity string.
So here what it whatever IT process let's say whatever value it fetches from DB or something I am creating
a response entity dot right.
For setting status I am setting status http okay means 200 successfully if it is a bad request or if
it is a validation failure.
Select an appropriate response code.
Right.
So currently this successfully done.
So I'm selecting the HTTP status code as okay 200.
And then put a body my my actual response.
The content I have put in the body.
Even if I want I can put header.
Also more details.
So the complete with status body header everything that is known as response entity.
So in rest controller when we are just simply returning a string not response entity, spring boot will
always considered as a Rest controller that this string would be considered as an HTTP response, and
if it is an HTTP response means it's considered as a response entity only.
Right.
So internally spring boot create response entity only like this only response entity of a string.
When we are simply returning a string in case of Rest controller.
But in case of controller, that's not true.
Right?
That's not true internally.
Internally spring boot will not create response entity because for controller, if response body is
not provided, it will considered as a view name.
So I can show you.
Now let's say I am passing controller.
I am not passing here response body right when I'm passing response body annotate response body, then
internally it will create response entity for this string.
But when I am not creating response body and let's let me try to run it.
I have started the server.
Let's hit the same API again.
See some error?
Why?
Because this output, whatever the name, fetch user details of let's say this string, it is considered
as a name of the view and it try to find out those file and wanted to render it right.
So it internally didn't create it as a response entity.
Okay.
So for this for today I will keep it here and I will cover the rest of the topic in the next part of
it.
Okay team any doubt, please feel free to ping me in the comment section and we'll, uh, see you soon.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot Bean and its Lifecycle | Inversion of Control ---

Hey guys, welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to cover a very important topic in Spring Boot.
That is been so in the previous four topics.
We have used couple of times that this has been, this has been but we will cover in depth today.
So in a simple term, if I have to define bean then I call it bean is a Java object which is managed
by spring container.
That is IOC inversion of control container.
Okay.
So it's no different than Java object but only managed by spring.
And what is IOC container?
IOC container contains all the beans which get created and also manage them.
So creation initialization and complete end to end managing their lifecycle.
Right.
That is done by IOC.
Okay.
So how to create a bin?
So there are two ways to create a bin.
One is through at the rate component annotation and another is through at the rate bin annotation.
With both ways you can create a bin.
But there are some specific use cases where you have to use at the rate bin annotation.
Using this might not help you for those use cases.
Okay.
And what are those use cases?
I will tell you soon.
So let's first start with at the rate component annotation.
So at the rate component annotation follows convention over configuration approach.
What does it mean.
So check this very simple example which I have created here a very simple class user with username and
email and its getter and setter.
Very basic class.
And I have put at the rate component at top.
Now this will tell Spring Boot.
Hey, you have to create its object.
You have to manage its lifecycle.
Right.
So that's the work of the component.
So component is convention over configuration.
What does it mean.
So spring boot when it try to create an object of it it uses some auto configuration like hey if I have
to create its object, call its default constructor.
And then using that we can create its object, right?
Because we are not providing any external configuration.
That and telling Spring Boot that how you should create an user object.
No, we haven't provided any configuration at the root component.
Spring boot automatically use some its auto configure that.
Okay I will use default constructor to create its object.
Okay.
and the rate controller at the rate service all are internally.
Tell spring to create bin and manage it.
Because if you see here at the rate controller, if I am putting so at the rate controller also internally
is nothing but component also right.
It is also a component.
Similarly service at the rate repository.
All are performing some specific tasks.
Plus also they are component.
So all telling spring that you have to create an object of it and manage its lifecycle.
Okay, so this example is very simple right?
But now consider this example.
What would happen to this.
Again same user class.
But only difference is now I have created one Specific constructor.
Now you know that when we provide our own constructor, Java will not add default constructor here.
Now default constructor is not present here.
Okay.
So if I put at the rate component means I am telling Spring Boot to create its object.
Now Spring Boot has its auto configured that okay I have to call its default constructor.
Now when it will try to create its been when it will try to create its object, will it be able to create?
No, because there is no default constructor here.
And spring doesn't know what to pass in the username and email.
So when you will try to start an application, your application will actually fail that not able to
create a bean.
So what to do?
In this case you have to tell Spring Boot that hey, when you create a user object, Pass this username,
this email right?
Then only you would be able to create it because there is no default constructor yet.
So that's where at the bean annotation can help.
Right.
So at the rate bean comes into the picture where we provide the configuration details.
So like external configuration and tells Springboot to use it while creating a bean.
So this is how we do it.
So here if you see that first from the user class I have removed the at the rate component.
Now it is not needed.
Okay.
The same example where there is no default constructor.
Now see this is how you create a configuration file.
So first create a class provide any name and use this annotation at the configuration At the rate configuration
annotation tells the spring boot that hey, in this class you will find certain bin methods, right?
For that you have to create bin also, right?
So here we can provide at the bin on a method.
So you can use any method name.
So I have given a name like create usr bin because I want to create a user.
So I just given a name create usr bin.
You can provide anything.
Return type is important.
So okay so return type is user.
It has to create this object.
So now here I am telling Spring Boot that how you should create its object.
So I'm telling create like this new user pass this username default username default email.
Now what would happen is.
So whenever a spring try to create an object of this user.
now it will not use auto configuration.
Why?
Because we have provided the external configuration.
Now suppose let's say you can ask me that.
Hey, what would happen if I provide at the rate component here also means one way.
I'm telling uh spring to use auto configuration, but in the external configuration.
Also, I have provided the bin and telling spring to use this.
Now let's say there is something called default constructor also here present.
So which one it will use.
So first priority will goes to this one.
You can try it out right.
Uh so you can create this uh object.
And after that try printing System.out.println.
And you can see which one actually is spring boot uses to invoke.
Right.
So this should get first priority.
External configuration because this is what we are providing right.
And what we want that is first priority to spring boot, not auto configuration.
Okay, so now you understand like there is certain specific use cases where at the rate bin only can
help you.
And this is one of the use case let's say where default constructor is not present.
Then you have to provide the how to create an object using at the rate bin annotation.
So also there is one more uh question can come that okay, what if I have multiple at the rate bin methods
where I'm creating a same user.
Let's say create user bin one.
Create user bin two both returning user.
So what would happen here.
So generally in this case what generally happen is spring boot goes one by one and create a bin for
all.
So in this case two object would get created like bin one, bin two.
So one get created for this user.
Also another is another for this user.
But with this information default username, default email, default username, default email.
And another is another username and another email.
Right.
And both now is gonna manage by IOC.
Okay.
So no matter how many times you write it, Spring Boot will create that many objects for it and which
one to use that we can see later.
There are something called at the rate qualifiers, right?
Or at the rate you can provide a name to the bin and tell in your code that, hey, I even there are
multiple objects I want to use this specific object that we will see different later.
Okay.
But first concentrate on that.
How you can create a bin through at the rate component and through at the rate beam.
So there are further two questions.
Again, comes to our mind that okay, I know how to create a bin now, right?
But how spring boot find these beans.
Because I have a huge application code base and there are like thousands of files and I have written
at the rate component at let's say 5060 files.
And also I have at the rate configuration file, right where I have provided at the rate bin.
So how actually spring boot able to find these classes where it has to create a bean.
And another question is at what time these beans get created.
Right.
So like as soon as you write it, does it create it like when Java compiles or what at what time is
beans get created?
So that is another question which get asked.
So let's first focus on the first part.
How spring boot find this bin.
So there are two ways.
One is at the root component scan annotation.
So added component annotation tells the spring boot to look in a specific specified package and sub
package, and look for all this annotated classes like at the root component, at the root service,
at the root repository at the root controller.
As I already told you that these annotations are also nothing but component two, right?
So Spring Boot will look for all these annotations in the specified package and sub package, and then
it able to find those beans.
So let's say this in the in this class spring boot application where we have a main.
You can write this at the root component scan and provide a base package.
Now spring boot goes start from this and further sub packages.
So this plus sub packages and look for this annotations.
Now even if you don't provide this as in the I think starting video, I also tell you that spring boot
application also has at the rate components can internally.
So if we see that spring boot application also has at the rate component scan and it's auto configuration
is that start from the package where this class is present.
So it will start from the package where this class is present and goes further.
Subclasses sub packages.
Okay.
So first way is through at the rate component scan.
And another way is through at the rate configuration.
So spring boot also looks for hey do you have any at rate configuration class present.
So it will look for those right.
And if it found that one then it will use all those at the rate bin which you have defined.
And just remember one thing at the rate configuration is also a at the rate component.
Right.
So we can see that also annotation at the rate.
Configuration.
So at the rate configuration is nothing also but component itself.
So whatever the package you have defined either you have defined or spring boot auto configure has been
taken.
So in that package it also looks for configuration class.
And once it finds the configuration class it uses these beans also.
So whatever the bean method you have provided it will also collect it and create a bean for those.
So these are the two ways at the rate component scan and at the rate configuration.
Spring boot finds the classes for which bean has to be created.
And the second one is at what time these beans get created, at what time these beans get created.
So the answer should be like in two ways.
The first one is eager initialization.
Eager initialization means at the time we start our application, that only that at that time itself
beans get created.
Another answer is lazy.
Not at the time of application startup, but whenever it is actually needed, only that time it is created.
So there are two ways.
Or you can say the two time this beans get created.
So there are certain thing called scope.
I will cover it in the next part.
Like there are different types of scope singleton scope, prototype scope.
Right.
So just for now, you need to, uh, understand that.
What is eagerness?
So just want to tell you that beans with singleton scopes are eagerly initialized.
Right?
So don't worry about.
Hey, what singleton scope.
We will cover in depth later, but for now, you have to focus on this eagerness or lazy part.
Just say that this is just an example that singleton scope beans are eagerly initialized means at the
time of application startup.
Similarly, uh, beans with scopes like prototype, they are lazy, lazily initialized, right?
Means they are initialized when they actually not needed, not at the time of application.
Or another way is that even though it's a singleton.
But if you have used specifically tell, uh, Spring Boot that at the lazy means you have to initialize
it lazily.
Right.
So here, if you see that I haven't provided anything at the rate scope where the value is like your
prototype or singleton, if you haven't provided anything by default it's singleton.
We will see later in depth.
But just for this, I haven't provided anything at the scope means by default spring boot do auto configure
and it will considered as singleton.
But now specifically I have used this annotation at the lazy and telling Spring boot that hey, don't
create this object of this at the time of application startup whenever it is required, then only create
it.
So these are the two ways through which beans get created.
You will get better understanding now with this lifecycle of bean, and most of things will get cleared
because I will tell you with an example also with demo.
So now here this is the life cycle of a bean.
So first time when you create and start an application, the when you start an application, what internally
Spring Boot will do.
It will also invoke the IOC inversion of control.
Now IOC what it will do is it will scan for the beans, search for the bean and how it will search for
the bean.
Two ways through at the component scan and at the right configuration.
So it will use this tool and look for all the beans it has to create.
And after that it will construct the bean.
Like if it is eagerly has to be initialized it will create it.
If some beans wanted or required, even though it is lazy, it will invoke it, right?
So at this third step it will construct the beans which is required.
Fourth step is Inject dependency into the constructed beans.
For example, this is an object user and there is another class order.
Okay, so now let's say that this user has dependency on this order class order object.
So this user needs this order.
And let's say this is even lazy initialize or something.
Now first third step was construct a bean.
So now let's say that this is singleton means it can be initialized.
So what it will do is IOC will create an object of it.
So user object is created.
User object is created means user bean is created which IOC is managing now fourth step was inject dependency
into the constructed bean.
So whatever the bean is constructed now will inject the dependency.
So this user bean has dependency on order.
So now what it will do is it will create the order object and inject it here.
Injected here.
So this is done at the fourth step.
Fifth step is that now your bean is fully constructed.
It was created.
And after that dependencies also get injected into it.
Now it is ready to use before it.
Ready to use.
If you have to perform any task you can use at that post construct.
Now ultimately bean is into action.
You can use it.
You can use it to call its method.
You can use it in your application.
Now finally, bean is about to destroy, and if you have to perform any task before it actually gets
destroyed, you can write it here.
And ultimately, bean got destroyed.
Okay, so we will see it one by one, like step one when you are starting an application.
Okay.
So now let's say that when you are starting an application.
So during I told you that during application startup, what Spring Boot will do it will invoke IOC.
So here I have taken a logs here.
So when you start a spring boot application you will see this two lines embedded web application context
initializing spring embedded web application context initialization completed.
This is nothing but a IOC.
This is application context, right?
This is the implementation of IOC logic.
What IOC does we say that IOC manage all the beans so that application context does it.
So now when you start an application here if you can see that it has initialized, IOC and IOC work
is to first scan the beans through at the rate component scan annotation, it will look for it.
And also at the rate configuration it will scan all the beans and will try to construct it.
So at the step one during application startup, the Spring boot invokes IOC container.
Here application context provide the implementation for IOC.
Now IOC container make use of add configuration and add component scan to look out for the classes for
which we need to be created.
Your.
Step two is construct the beans right?
So just see this example.
I have created a simple class user and just default constructor and just printing initializing user.
Now here if you see that I have put at the right component means I am telling Spring boot to create
its object.
And also you will see that I haven't provided anything at the right scope means by default.
What would be the scope for this class?
Singleton?
If it is singleton, then means it is eligible for eager initialization or eager initialization means
during application startup itself.
IOC will create its object, create this beam.
So here, if you see that I started the server, IOC got invoked when IOC got invoked.
It does at the right component scan and at the right configuration it is able to find this class.
Now it will see that creating its object default constructor is called initializing user.
So it created the bean of this.
Okay.
So second step is once you start an application IOC started look for the bean.
And it will construct the bean of those classes which can be eagerly initialized like singleton.
So once the bean is created thus the next step would be your bean is created or next step would be dependency
injection.
So see this one.
See this example.
So I have created a very simple class user and its constructor initializing user.
System.out.println.
Right.
And I have put at.
The rate component here means the spring has to create its object.
And also there is no at the rate scope means its singleton applicable for eager initialization.
And I have put one now dependency that hey user is depend on this order right.
Now here if you see that I have created an order class.
Very simple class one constructor default constructor with like initializing order.
Also I have put at the rate component means spring has to create its object and if you see there is
no order, scope means this is singleton eligible for eager initialization.
But now I have specifically put at the rate lazy means I'm telling.
Spring boot not to create its object at the time of application startup.
So now what would happen.
So this is very basic class I have created.
Now I have started the application.
When I started the application IOC initialize.
It will look for the beans.
It find this bean user bean and it will find this classes user class where at the rate component is
there it will also find order class at the rate component is there.
Now it will see that hey your order class is marked as lazy initialized.
So I don't have to initialize this during application startup.
Only when it is needed I have to create it.
So.
Your IOC will try to create first its object user.
So it will call initialize user.
Done.
Now after the bean is constructed what it will do next step is try to inject the dependency.
Nancy.
So now it will look that hey, this annotation at the auto wire.
So it will with this annotation.
What spring boot says that hey, is this been already present in container in IOC container does order
bin is already present.
If yes it will just inject it and we can use it.
If no then what would do is IOC will first create order bin means it will first create order object
right and then inject into this.
So currently order object is not even constructed right.
So means IOC will have to now create first order object.
So means this is required.
So it will its constructor will get invoked initializing order.
Now it will inject into it.
Now the order object which is constructed now.
It is getting initialized here.
Okay.
But if this is not present, if this dependency is not present, let's say this is not present.
And then you start an application, you will see that okay user is initialized.
Right.
And there is no dependency.
You won't find this.
Why?
Because at application startup this is marked as lazy order.
So it will not be initialized at that time.
Only when it is needed.
Since we have put a dependency here in the user means it is needed for the user bean.
So that's why order object is also initialized.
Okay, but this step is clear right after the construction of the beam dependency injection happens
through the help of.
Auto wire.
So there is another thing that there are different ways of doing an injection construction.
Injection setter.
Injection field injection.
We will cover each injection in depth in the next part with the scope.
I will cover this dependency injection also.
But you already know dependency injection, right?
Uh, it uses this at the auto wide annotation.
So first it will check if bean is already present.
Use it.
Don't create new bean of this.
If bean is not found then only spring will create it and inject it.
So this injection.
There are three logic which we will see later.
Okay, now your user object is now fully constructed.
Now it is ready to use, but before ready to use, if any pre tasks you have to do, you can do through
at the rate post construct annotation.
So here very simple user class marked as add component.
Again like previously it has dependency on order.
This is a sample based constructor.
Initializing user.
But now I have written this class which is marked as at the read post construct.
And you can give any name and I've just printed that been has been constructed and dependencies has
been injected to only after that this will get invoked.
Now if you start the application IOC started.
IOC able to find this class that it has to create its object and it is singleton eligible for eager
initialization.
So it will create initializing user.
It will call its constructor.
After that it will inject look for any dependency injection.
So auto wired it has dependency on order.
Order been is present let's say no.
So it will invoke the order.
So order like Initialising order and will update it.
Now your bin is ready.
After that it will invoke at the rate post construct.
So now it will print this.
Okay so that's the sequence.
So you can do any pre-task.
Like if you want to do any logging you can do it here.
Or if you want to initialize something you can do it here.
Like any map HashMap something you want to put, anything some data.
You can initialize it here before using it.
Now at fifth step you can say that the bean actually you use start using it.
So in this step I am talking about uh post construct happen now actually you are actually using the
bean.
So you now you have a user object.
Let's say now you are calling that user object dot some method.
You are actually using it in your application.
That's what I mean.
Use the bean.
Now once the bean has been constructed also, now it's time for it to get destroyed.
But before it getting destroyed, you have to do some pre-task like okay, before it actually destroyed.
I have to release all the resources so you can use this at the rate p destroy annotation.
So before the bean actually get destroyed, this method will get invoked.
Let's say you have a DB connection and you before being destroyed you have to make sure that yes, DB
connection is uh, released.
No resources.
Uh hold.
So you can check it in this.
So now again if you see that very simple class user no dependencies there.
Right at the right post construct pre destroy I have written.
Now when you start an application generally this is the main class which is present into this.
When you start an application your IOC started.
Right.
So this is also you will get a context object IOC application context object.
right?
So here I am catching it and specifically closing it, and I am specifically closing it.
Generally you don't have to close.
All right.
So but here for the testing purpose to show you I'm specifically closing it.
So what would be the flow when I start this application.
First IOC will start when IOC will start.
So it's running right.
When IOC will start it will find this bean.
It's a singleton eagerly initialize eligible.
So it will initialize the user.
Then it will look for any dependency.
No dependency means now object is fully constructed user.
Now it will do post construct.
So post constructor initiated will get printed.
Now you can uh so this one happened.
So now your object is ready to use.
But as soon as it ready to use we are now closing it the next step.
So now when we are closing the application context means when we are closing the container, All the
beans which are present inside this will also get destroyed.
So it will call for speed destroy method on those beans, right?
In each classes if you have any are pre destroyed.
So that would get invoked for each bin right.
In specific classes.
Beans.
So now bin is about to destroy and pre destroy method for this user.
Bean.
So this will get invoked.
Bean is about to destroy and destroy method.
And ultimately your IOC will get closed.
Okay.
So we have covered till this all your whole life cycle of a bean is get completed.
Also.
I hope that clarifies you a lot.
At what time being get created what actually bean is.
And but the next topic we will cover is your dependency injection auto.
We have already seen what it does but different type of injection we have to see.
Very important.
Right.
Constructor injection.
Very important.
We used a lot like in industry.
And the scope of the been very important too.
Right.
So this is one more property which I will cover that qualifier when you have more than one bean for
a same type that I told you.
Right.
If you have more than one bean for this user, user user which which bean to use in your code, you
bean name and qualifier help you to choose that.
I want to use this object.
So this three part I will cover next.
Okay team, if you have any doubt in this, this is very important topic in the life cycle.
Part eagerness lazy initialized part right.
And do try it out with your hands.
Like uh.
Then only you will get more questions and then we can discuss further.
Okay, guys.
Thank you.
See you soon.

--- Dependency Injection ---

Hey guys, welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
Today in the Spring Boot series we are going to do dependency injection.
And before we start dependency injection I want to tell that what is the prerequisite for it.
The prerequisite is that you need to understand the bean and a life cycle.
Right?
Which I have covered in the previous video of this right there.
I explained you the life cycle of a bean so that you would be able to understand where this dependency
injection actually comes into the picture of a complete life cycle of a bean.
Right?
So if that is clear to you, you would be able to call it so many things.
But if you have not seen this video being a life cycle, like I'm pretty much sure that like, lot of
doubts are gonna come.
Okay, so with this base, understanding that you already know the life cycle of a bean, I am proceeding
further.
Okay, so before we understand what is dependency injection, let me tell you one problem.
Like let's see the problem, which it tried to solve.
So there I created a two very basic class.
One is user, one is order right.
User is dependent on order.
So that's why it is creating a new order instance.
And it's a constructor in both very simple class.
So user is creating an instance of an order.
So do you see any problem with these two classes.
The one problem which I see is that they are highly coupled, very tightly coupled.
And because of this tightly coupled two issue will come.
The first issue is that in future, any change in the order structure will bring the change in the user
to, for example, in the order class.
If I am changing it to this, I convert this order class to an order interface.
And I created so many child classes like online order, offline order.
Likewise Because of the future requirement of the business.
I have to expand this.
I have to restructure this order class now because user class is directly creating an instance of the
order it will get impact two.
Now this code will not work because you can't create an object of an interface, so this will break.
So what you have to do is you have to change the code and create an object of its concrete implementation.
So for example here online order offline order.
So you have to create an object of that.
But yeah so this code will work now.
So now you are creating an order but now you are creating its concrete implementation okay.
So this is the first issue that any change in the structure of order your user class will also get impact.
Like you see now let's say you have done this.
This will create another issue, right?
It will break the dependency inversion rule of the solid principle.
So what D says in the solid principle, the D says in the solid principle that do not depend on concrete
implementation, rather depend on abstraction.
So when you are doing this new online order, you are creating an object of an concrete implementation.
You are actually breaking the dependency inversion rule of solid principle.
So to fix it, what you have to generally do is you have to depend on its abstraction interface class.
In this case, right.
And its dependency should come from the external.
So let's say that whoever is going to create an object of user, they will pass, whether online or
offline order that will ultimately get set to here.
So this is what dependency inversion principle says.
So in spring boot this dependency inversion can be achieved through dependency injection.
Okay, so dependency injection solves the above problem.
So what?
Dependency injection says that we can make our class independent of dependencies.
So here in this case user was dependent on order right.
So we can make independent of dependency.
So now here if you see that I am not creating any new order or if even in interface I'm not creating
new online order concrete class nothing.
Right.
So there is no tight coupling between user and order now.
So this order will contain let's say in future you have online order offline order.
So many thing what actually it will contain that dependency we haven't put into the user class.
And that responsibility we have given to an external source.
Like to whom?
Like spring.
So spring will resolve this dependency.
But you have make your classes like very loose couple.
Okay.
So how is spring boot generally uh, do dependency injection.
So you got what dependency injection is.
Dependency injection is to bring the loose coupling between two classes.
Or you can say that we can make our class independent of dependencies.
Okay.
And what you can always explain with this examples that these are the problems.
So dependency injection helps to achieve this dependency inversion rule of the solid principle.
So now in the same class if we rewrite through in spring boot, what we can do is we can create a user
class and create at the root component means we are telling to the spring that you manage the bean of
this class.
We are creating an order class.
Also put at the rate component means telling a spring to manage the bin of this class.
Now this user class is dependent on order.
Now here I am not creating any object, but I have written an auto wired.
So what?
This auto wired says that auto wire tells to the spring that hey, first look for a bin of the required
type.
If order bin is already present, use that and inject into it.
Resolve the dependency.
If not, you will create it and then inject it.
First create the bin of the order and then inject it.
So now what you are doing is you are giving the responsibility to external source.
What is the external source?
Spring.
So spring is now using its logic to how to create an instance of this through auto wire.
Okay.
So this is, I put it just to so that you can recall that where the dependency injection comes into
the picture.
So this injection.
At the rate auto wire through at the rate auto wire spring, inject the dependency into this field.
Right.
So there are three ways to do that.
One is field injection.
Another is setter injection.
And third one is constructor injection.
Very very important in industry you will mostly see that we are using construction injection.
But many of them doesn't know why.
But we know that we have to use construction injection.
We don't have to use this.
But why?
So I will explain you the advantage and disadvantage of each.
So first is field injection.
So dependency is set into the fields of the class directly.
What does it mean.
So here if you see this is a class I have created a user class put that that component means now spring
has to create.
Its been.
This is just a simple constructor.
And I have.
So this user class is dependent on this order class.
So this order object I needed but I have till now spring you create an instance of this order.
So this is an order class.
I have a simple constructor component means spring has to create.
Its been.
I have just put lazy from the previous video.
You might already understand that if we put lazy means during application startup, this object will
not get created only when it first use, then only it will be created.
Okay, so I have written it here just for the sake that this logs would like totally get sequenced like
exactly where it used.
So I will tell you now what would happen.
Field injection.
So now here if you see that on this field I have put this auto wire.
So this is known as field injection.
So what now spring will do.
So you know the sequence right.
When when you started the application.
So IOC will get started.
So IOC will get started right.
So what IOC will see it will look for all the beans which it has to initiate.
So it will look for at the rate component uh classes.
So it found this user and order.
So it will first create a user user initiated.
Then it found an order.
So it will has to invoke it.
But it says that okay.
It says that lazy I don't have to invoke it now when it will use I will use it.
So user is created.
Now it will see that okay is there any dependency which I have to resolve.
So it will look for it will use reflection.
Spring uses reflection to iterate over the fields and resolve the dependency.
So internally is spring.
It uses the reflection and iterate over all the fields and see that hey, any field has auto wired on
it.
If yes, then spring has to resolve its dependency.
So now spring find that okay order is the field which I have to resolve for this user.
Bean.
So now because of auto wire it first check.
Hey order bean is already there.
No we haven't because we have marked lazy.
That order bean was not initiated.
So now at this time, spring will initiate the order.
So it's order object is created.
And after that, once the order object is created that get injected here.
So now here we haven't provided at the configuration file.
Right.
So spring will might call its default constructor at that configuration.
I have already explained you in the previous video.
So what is advantage?
One advantage is it is very simple and easy to use.
So if you just see there you are just looking at a code.
You already get to know that okay this is the class.
This is the field.
And okay these are the dependencies I have.
So it's very very easy to read and understand.
And it's very simple.
So what is the disadvantage of this field injection.
One thing is you cannot marked as immutable.
So what immutable means you can initialize it once.
So let's say that a equals to ten and you marked it as immutable final.
Now once it is initialized, if you try to change its value let's say 30, it says that no you can't
change it.
This is just an example.
I'm telling you that what immutable is means you can initialize it only once, and after that you cannot
change its value.
So the disadvantage of field injection is you can't make fields immutable.
You can't do this.
You can't put final.
Let's say that your application has a requirement to make this order immutable.
Can you do that?
No.
You will put null.
So this this issue will go.
Now what would happen is, uh, I told you that spring uses reflection.
And during reflection, it ignores it, whether it's a final or not.
And ultimately it will inject the dependency.
So you, when you are ultimately trying to use it, you won't see null.
You ultimately see that the object instance is injected into it.
So that breaks immutability because initially you have first initialized it with null.
Now, as per the immutability, you should not be able to change its value.
But since we are using reflection and you know that in Java reflection do not honor anything, it breaks
many principles.
It do not honor anything.
So during reflection it doesn't bother final or not.
It just take read this field and inject the dependency.
So immutability doesn't work in the case of field injection.
Second is chances of null pointer exception.
Now let's say that you are creating a user class and you are creating this objects.
Everything is proper, right?
Right.
You are putting an auto wired on this.
Now let's say.
Some piece of the code creating an object like new user.
This is also valid, right?
Nothing wrong in that you can always create a new object, right?
Spring will not force you that you can't use it.
So let's say that some piece of the code create user create by itself new user.
Right?
It will create a new object.
So when it create a new object default constructor is used.
So in the default constructor what would be the value of order now null right.
Because we haven't initialized it anything.
Now if you try to call this method user process user object dot process.
So this process will get invoked.
Now it is trying to use the order order dot process order dot process.
And it will throw null pointer exception.
Another issue with the field injection is that during unit testing.
So you have this class.
Now you have to mock this order right.
So now you let's say that what you have to do is you have to mock this user object order object.
So you have created a mock object of this order.
Now how you will mock it?
There is no constructor here or no setter method where you can put this mock object which you have created
into this because now spring is initially creating it, right?
You don't have control over it.
So how you will set this order mock into this class.
So generally currently today what we are using is Mockito and JUnit which we might be using.
Right.
So there we put at mock at the inject mock.
So what internally it does it it uses also uses reflection.
So it will iterate over it and it will see that okay if there is any field order.
Right.
So what it will do is it will put this order mock into that.
So this at the mock at that it inject mock notation.
Does that.
Then we have called setter injection.
So setter injection is that dependency is set into the field setter method.
So it means in the setter method we are putting an auto wired not on the member variable field.
So here I am not putting auto wired.
I have just created the field and during this I have created one set method set order dependency.
Like it accepts the parameter order that this dependency.
It has to now initialize and put auto wire means that this method should be used by spring to create
the dependency, inject the dependency into the order.
Right.
So what is the advantage?
Very simple.
Simple as uh field.
Right?
Uh, the same, but only instead of auto wired.
Here we are putting an auto wired here.
So what is the advantage.
Is advantage is that dependency can be changed any time after the object creation.
It means that for now you have dependency.
Let's say you have put anything.
Since it's a setter method, right?
You can always call this method pass different dependencies here and it can be changed.
Let's say you have order online order offline order.
Let's say that some other type of order.
So let's say you have the privilege now to first set it through online.
Then first set it through order offline.
So it says that dependency can be changed any time after the object creation.
Once the object is fully created, spring might fill the instance, but you also have now leverage that
you can again call this method and pass whatever you want.
Maybe if you want to change it.
Okay, second thing is easy of testing.
So now in this setter method, in this parameter you can pass your mock object mock order object which
get set here.
Now you don't need at the rate inject mocks at the rate mocks which uses internally reflection.
You can pass it and ultimately it will get set.
Okay.
But there again it has some disadvantage.
One thing is you cannot make field immutable like you can't put final over this.
Why?
Because in the setter method you are setting it.
You cannot feel cannot be marked as final because once user object is created, spring will use the
reflection to find out.
Hey, is there any methods which is marked with auto wired?
It will find it and now spring would be able to initialize it.
Right.
So field cannot be marked as final here.
So you will see that here you will see red line like this.
Difficulty to read and maintain.
So it's very difficult to read and maintain that.
Okay.
Hey, this somebody created this field.
Is it managed by spring or not?
So it has to look for any method that which has auto wired on top of it.
So this is not readable actually.
Right.
And it is very difficult to maintain like okay if somebody has missed this method itself or not.
So these are the you can say that the disadvantage of the setter injection.
Then here comes the constructor injection which is heavily used.
Or you can say that it's the most recommended.
So dependency get resolved at the time of initiation of the object itself.
This is the best part.
It's not like after user object is created, then spring uses reflection and then fill up this in dependencies.
Inject the dependencies.
Know at the time you are creating a user object itself.
This dependencies are also resolved.
How?
So let's say that this is the user class marked as at the root component.
This is my order.
I haven't put at the rate auto wire here, just a normal order.
Now this is the constructor.
Now you know that constructor is used to creating an instance of an object.
So in this constructor you will pass the order for which dependencies has to be resolved.
And here I am setting the dependency.
This dot order equals to order.
And I put auto wire here.
So this auto wire ultimately get applied to all the parameters.
If you have more parameters like this this auto wire get applied to all.
So now spring would resolve the dependency of all and then initialize it at the time of user object
creation itself.
And also one more interesting will tell you that from the spring version 4.3, right?
When only one constructor is present, then you don't even use auto wired, right?
That is also works fine.
It is not mandatory when you have one constructor.
So here if you see that in this user class I have only one constructor, right?
So now when the spring initiated right I haven't put auto wired also.
So even though it will work fine, and if you have more than one constructor, if you have more than
one constructor, then auto wired usage is mandatory.
You have.
So now let's say that I have two dependency on order and invoice.
So I have created two classes.
One is invoice, one is order.
Very basic right at that component I have just to make sure that when they should get invoked, when
actually they are used.
So user has this two To dependency.
So this is my first constructor which resolves this order.
This is my second constructor which accepts the invoice and putting the invoice.
Now there are two constructor and I haven't put an auto wire.
Now this will fail if you start the application been in initiation.
Exception will come because there is no default constructor.
And after that it has to use one constructor.
But there are more than one constructor.
So spring doesn't know which constructor I should use.
So it will throw exception that you tell me like which bean to use, which constructor use.
So you have to tell one auto wire on one of the constructor.
So now let's say I put on invoice.
So what would happen first user object will get created.
So invoice let's say during IOC started they will find Bean of order class for this.
But since it's marked as lazy, it will not get invoked till it's not used.
So it found user.
It will now sees that okay, this is the constructor which I have to use.
So now here if you see that I am trying to use the invoice.
So first invoice will get invoke invoice initialized.
After that it will put here.
Invoice injection is set after it says that user initialization with only invoice and finish.
So order is not even touched.
Okay so you got the constructor injection.
But now you should ask me that.
Hey why it is recommended.
What are the advantages of it.
So first thing is all mandatory dependencies are created at the time of initialization itself.
So it makes 100% sure that our object is fully initialized with mandatory dependency.
Second part is you can make your field immutable.
So now here, if you see that I can use final and in the constructor you can initialize it.
Because at the time of initialization creation of this user itself, I am initializing it only for the
first time.
After that you won't be able to change it.
So this is another big advantage of it.
And with auto wired on the field injection, I already told you you can't use final.
But with constructor injection you can make your fields immutable.
You can put final.
And during object creation itself, you can initialize it for the first time.
And after that you won't be able to change it.
Third advantage is fail.
Fast means that if there is any missing dependency, it will fail early.
So here, if you see that at this point of time, let's say that I am creating this user class and I
by mistake.
Auto wired.
When you by mistake missed auto wired.
What would happen is spring will create an object of this user.
It will call the by default constructor.
This order object would be null.
And if somebody is try to access it like let's say order dot something it will call null pointer exception.
So you are getting to know about this at runtime, not at compile time but with constructor injection.
Like let's say that even if you missed auto wired here, like even if you missed auto wired on the constructor,
you know that if for one constructor, spring will automatically resolve it and fill it.
If you have more than one constructor, let's say, then spring will fail it.
I told you that it will fail.
Bean initiation exception that which constructor to use, Right.
So you have to first put auto wired somewhere, right.
So it will force you it will fail fast during compile time itself.
Unit testing become easy that the same as the setter injection, right?
Like you have an order object.
You can inject it here in the constructor.
So I'm creating a new user.
You can pass the mock object here.
You don't need at the inject mocks at the mock reflection to set this mock object here in this you can
pass it here.
It will get realized.
So unit testing become little easy.
So these are all the advantages of constructor injection.
Now you can ask me that.
Hey why you haven't told me that.
What is the disadvantage of constructor injection?
Because I will tell you that the disadvantage of constructor injection is also I will consider mostly
as an advantage.
So one generally one disadvantage of constructor injection is hey, if you have, let's say that 20
dependencies, your constructor will become huge.
Let's say object one, object two, object three, object four.
Like this.
And you have put auto add here.
Your constructor parameters will keep on increasing.
So this is the one of the disadvantage.
But here if you see that I considered as an advantage because this will keep you a check that hey is
your code design is good that your parameter you.
Your class has so many dependencies I think it's a good time.
You should refactor it.
So what are the some of the common issues when dealing with dependency injection?
So two major issue is one is circular and another is your unsatisfied for dependency.
So let's first see the circular dependency.
So in the circular dependency what happens is let's say you have a class order.
You have a class invoice.
Order is dependent on invoice.
Invoice is dependent on order.
So now here if you see that this is a circle circular dependency order is dependent on invoice.
Invoice is dependent on order.
Now they are both using auto wired here.
So when you start an application application will fail to start says that it form a cycle.
So this is a circular dependency.
So how do you resolve it.
The first and the foremost is that we should refactor the code and remove the cycle dependency.
How.
There might be some code here.
Common code which both needed its.
Take out the common code To a separate class.
Right.
And let those classes call those utility class.
And that will break your circular dependency.
This is your first priority to do that.
Let's say that if you are not able to do then the second thing is using at the rate lazy on auto wide
annotation.
I have already told you that if you are using at the rate component, if you are using at the rate lazy
over here over the top of a class, right at the top of the component, you are telling to the spring
that during my application startup, don't create its object eagerly, only when it is required then
only created.
But now let's say that if you are putting an auto lazy on top of auto wired, not at the top of here
hear what you are telling to the spring.
So what?
First spring during application startup it would be able to find at the rate component invoice object
is initialized.
So invoice object is created and this order object is not yet initialized.
So dependency has to be injected.
Now it will use reflection.
It will find okay this field auto wired is there.
But now it will see that it is marked as lazy means I don't have to resolve it.
Now I can put some proxy here, right?
That after means when the first time it is used this object, then only I will create the actual object
and put it here.
But for this, at this time, it will just create some proxy.
Uh, and just add it here.
Right.
It won't do a proper initiation.
So with the help of this, add the lazy parameter lazy annotation on top of auto wire.
we can break the circular dependency.
So now first consider this you will get lazy annotation batter.
So now here if you see that order I have marked as lazy right.
It's a component invoice has at the rate component and very basic.
So when you start an application what will start IOC started.
It will look for the At component annotation.
It will find both.
It will say that order.
It is marked as lazy so it will not create its object.
Now it find an invoice.
It will say that okay it has to create its object.
So invoice initiated.
So here I told you that invoice object initiated.
Now here if you see that it uses a reflection, now it uses a reflection.
It will see auto wired on top of it and it will try to resolve it.
So means now it will create an object of it one order initiated.
So this is how you know that it works generally.
Now if I put at the rate lazy here now, what would happen?
The same thing first time when you started an application like this is lazy, so object will not be
created for it first.
So invoice object will created.
Now this order is not yet initialized, so now it uses reflection it find out okay this is the auto
wired I have to resolve it now.
It also finds that at the rate lazy is, there means I don't have to create an object of it now, so
it will put it some proxy.
But this order object is not initiated.
So here if you see that there is no order initialized.
So you got it right.
Whatever.
Like how it breaks the dependency.
So that's why we are using lazy to resolve the dependency.
So order is now dependent on invoice.
Invoice is dependent on order.
Now at any one of them we put a lazy.
Right.
So when you put any one of them, you put lazy.
You are ultimately breaking the dependency means because here now it will not create order object.
It will just put some proxy.
It will not creating order object.
Similarly, in the kind of a field injection you can use on the setter injection.
So like this is the setter at the required right.
Similarly you can put it at the setter also.
So you can try over the constructor injection also.
So the first is refactoring.
Second is add the lazy annotation on the auto wire.
Third is using post construct.
So now what you can do is here.
This is the order class I have put an invoice.
This order is dependent on invoice.
So this is an invoice class right.
And this is dependent on order.
Now here if you have seen this I haven't put auto wired here.
I haven't put any constructor injection or setter injection.
I haven't put anything so I have removed it right now.
What I do know the sequence been life cycle, right?
What would happen?
Let's say that it first able to uh first able to find an order right.
Or let's say it first able to find out invoice whichever.
Because it can find anything.
Right.
So what would happen is let's say order object would be created, let's say order initialized.
So order is initialized.
So currently it know that it has to put an invoice.
So it will use a reflection because it has to inject the dependency.
So it has auto invoice.
So now it will say that hey does invoice bin is already created.
Not yet.
So it will invoke it.
So it will create an invoice component.
So now here in the invoice Invoice initialize will come, right?
Invoice initialize will come.
Now here.
If you see that I haven't put auto wired here, so means order would by default would be set object
would by default value is null.
So here order is null.
But object creation is successful.
Now.
Now this object get initialized over here in this right.
And with this one it's been constructed also completed now in the post construct.
You know that post constructor comes into the picture after the dependency injected properly.
So dependency injection happened on this right now post constructor will come.
Now here what I am doing is hey, whatever the invoice instance you have, I have exposed one setter
method here.
Whatever the order will come, I will put it here, but here if you see I haven't put auto wired means
I am not letting spring do it.
I am doing it.
The the the developer taking the responsibility.
Application is taking the responsibility to put the dependency.
So I am creating this invoice object dot set order.
I am here setting the order.
Which one?
This object.
So this will also get initialized.
So this is one another hacky way of doing it.
So why I say hacky because this is generally not recommended.
All right.
The first and foremost is using code refactoring.
All other I considered as as a hack to make your code works because something you cannot change.
Another issue is unsatisfied dependency.
So consider the problem first.
So here if you see that this is my user class, user class is dependent on order.
Order is an interface which has two child classes.
Online order.
Offline order.
Now.
If you have put auto wired now, you are telling spring that hey, fill the dependency here.
Now how would the spring know that?
Whether I have to fill the dependency with online order object or offline order object?
Which one?
So when you start an application it will fail unsatisfied.
Dependency injection error creating with the name user.
It not able to construct the bean of a user because it don't know whether to put online or offline order
object.
So it has two solution one is using at the rate primary annotation.
So in one of the online order and offline order in one of the, you can put at marked as one of the
primary, you can put a primary annotation.
Primary annotation tells a spring that give it a first priority.
Use it like so.
We are providing a like say some input to the spring that whenever you find a multiple like what to
use because this is also an order, this is also an order.
Now what to inject into here.
Use the primary one so it will use the primary one equals to.
Internally.
Spring will do new online order.
It will call this one online order initialize right.
It will say that if you check its object ultimately it will get online object initialized.
See I haven't put at the rate lazy here.
I haven't put at the rate lazy here.
That's why at the time of application startup this will also get initialized.
This will also get initialized.
All three get initialized.
But when this dependency is injected which one it will get injected.
This one online order this because this is marked as primary.
Another is using at the rate qualifier annotation.
So qualifier annotation means that provider name.
So application will provide a name.
So on this Online order.
I have put at the rate qualifier and give some name online order name something I have given offline
order.
I have given one name.
Offline order name.
So I have given one qualifier to it.
Now here in the user class during the order auto wired.
Now I have used qualifiers.
Okay.
Here qualifiers I have give offline order.
Use offline order if you want to change it.
Put online order so that object will get created.
So that also you can use it using the qualifiers annotation.
Right.
And application will start properly with this.
So this is everything about dependency injection at all.
If you have any doubt ping me in the comment section.
We can discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Bean Scopes | Singleton, Prototype, Request and Session Bean Scope ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to see a new topic in Spring Boot that is been scopes.
And here till now we have covered all these topics and also all this green which I have highlighted.
And today dependency injection we have already covered.
We have already seen bean everything its life cycle.
And today I'm covering the scopes.
Very important.
Okay so we have covered till here.
Okay so let's start without any wasting time.
So the first and foremost what is the prerequisite to understand the scope.
So you have to have the understanding of bean and its life cycle which we have covered in the previous
session.
So there I have told you this bean life cycle.
Right.
This is the flow.
It goes.
So this is very important to understand the scope, right?
Why?
Because there are multiple different type of scopes singleton prototype request session.
And also there are one more application right.
So there are five types of scopes.
And generally if you know this life cycle of a bean, it would be helpful for you to picturize like
okay, at what time the object is getting created.
Okay.
So please have a look at this bean and life cycle before you jump into the scope video.
Okay, let's start with Singleton.
So this is the default scope.
So here consider this classes.
This is the class we have already seen.
You can create it as a Rest controller where you can define an API like I have given get mapping.
We have already seen that.
Okay, so does I have defined any scope here?
No.
No scope I have defined here.
So what would be the default scope here.
Singleton.
So what does singleton means.
Only one instance created per IOC.
What does that mean?
I told you, when you start an application, let's say when you start an application, you see that
you will see web server application context started.
Right.
So that's actually your IOC is getting started.
So only one instance created per IOC.
Right.
Or you can say that in most of the manner one instance per application.
Considering that one application is running only one IOC okay.
And one more thing.
If you remember, I told you that Singleton are eagerly initialised by IOC and I have showed you the
example of eagerly and the lazy initialization.
Also, while I was explaining you this life cycle, I have explained both eagerly and lazy.
So singleton are eagerly initialized.
Let's see an example.
You will recall it better.
So this is one class, very basic class.
I haven't defined anything here.
No scope.
So what would be the default singleton?
This is another test controller two.
But here if you see I can also do this at the rate scope you can do value equals to like this configurable
bin factory dot scope singleton.
So this is like even though singleton is default is singleton only.
I don't have to write it, but just for demo purpose that you can also specifically write also in this
way.
So there is another class which I write user, which is a component, and I can write it like this also.
And there is a scope and direct you can put a string singleton right.
Internally this enum it's actually string only singleton right.
So anything whichever you like you can use it.
Either you can use directly string or enum or you don't do anything in all manner.
It's this class is a singleton class.
Now what would happen when you start the application?
What would happen?
So if you know the life cycle of a bean, what would happen is when you start the application IOC started
and when IOC started, what it will do is it will look for the classes which need to be managed by spring.
So it will look for at the right component, at the right rest controller kind of classes.
So it found this test controller one first.
So what it will do is it will call its constructor test controller one instance initialization test
controller one instance initialization.
But this object is not fully constructed yet.
As you know the life cycle right?
First it construct a bean, then it inject the dependency then call post construct.
So currently it created a bean.
But dependencies are not injected.
So now it will look for okay is there any dependency.
Yes.
User.
So now user would be invoked.
So user initialization will happen here.
If you see second is user initialization.
So user has any dependency.
No.
No dependency.
So means user now goes to the next life cycle post construct user object created.
And it's hash code is this.
So one user object is created.
User object created.
So now let's say that user object got created with hash code some 1140202235 something something.
Okay.
Now this dependency is injected here in the test controller.
So in the test controller in the user this got injected test controller one okay.
So now is there any more dependency here.
No.
So now it's post construct will come.
So now it will write test controller object hash code.
So it's hash code.
And also I am writing user hash code.
So printing this.
So what it will print test controller object hashCode some new hash code like say this is this object
hash code.
And we are also printing this object hash code.
What would be the same 1140.
It will print the same like 1140.
This this and this would be same same user object.
It would have.
Right?
So currently only one object of user is created.
One object of test controller one is created.
Okay.
So this constructor is done eagerly initialized.
Now spring will say okay.
Is there any other class for which I need to create eagerly initialized?
Yes.
Test controller two.
It will see that okay, it is singleton.
It can be do eagerly initialized.
So what it will do is test controller two instance Turns.
Initialization test controller to instance initialization.
Now the second step is inject the dependency.
Now it says that user.
So user is singleton means only one object would be created and it's already created right.
So the same object would be into the test controller two into the user.
The same object would be inserted, the same object would be inserted.
And after that it will reach out to post construct as there are no more auto wired.
So test controller hashCode some new hashCode for this one.
It's hashCode, this object hashCode.
And for this user it would be like the same.
This only.
So test controller object hashcode user is same.
So the same one.
So you got it Like in a single turn, only one object is created per IOC.
So this is just a different way of telling a class that it's a singleton.
And when you start an application, it is eagerly initialized.
And I have shown you with an example that this is how generally it resolves it.
If the object is not created, it will create.
And once it is created, the same object is used everywhere.
And now if you are invoking an API, let's say you are invoking this fetch user API or fetch user two
API.
No object construction will happen, it will simply invoke the particular API.
All the objects are created before itself.
We have seen okay.
So Singleton is clear, right?
Cool.
Now there is one other important is something called prototype.
Right.
So what does prototype say is Says that each time a new object is created, no matter if you are.
If if a class is defined as prototype, new object is created each and every time.
Very simple.
Another important part.
Very very important.
It's lazily initialized.
It's not eagerly initialized.
So what lazily initialized means when object is created.
Or you can say that when object is actually needed, actually needed, then only it would get created.
Okay.
So when object is actually needed, then only its get created.
So I will explain you with this simple example right.
So here test controller one class.
This is a Rest controller.
So there are some APIs I have defined here.
So this is how the prototype you can do at the rate scope and you can use this enum configurable bin
factory scope prototype.
Right.
So this class has this two injection dependencies.
One is user, one is a student.
Let's see a student first.
So a student is a component and there is no scope means it is singleton okay very simple class.
And this student is dependent on user.
So this is dependent on this user okay.
So and test controller is also dependent on user.
So it is also dependent on this user.
And what is this user classes prototype.
So now see here I have I can define a prototype like this using enum.
Or you can use even a string like directly at prototype in double quotes okay.
So means user is prototype class scope and test controller one is also a prototype.
So means every time a new object would be created for it, the student is singleton means only one object
would be created in the system.
So now if I run the application, what would happen?
So now let's say if I run the application, what is IOC will see that it will say okay rest controller.
It would find it.
Now it will see its scope.
Hey is it Singleton.
No it's a prototype.
Prototype is lazily initialized.
Not at the time of application startup.
So it will skip it.
No, I won't create its object until it's not used.
Then it finds, let's say user.
Hey, user is component.
Its scope is prototype.
Okay, this is also lazily.
I will not invoke it.
I will not create its object.
Then it will find a student.
Okay, this is Singleton.
Singleton is eagerly initialized.
I can create this object.
So first it will create a student instance initialization.
So it will create student instance initialization.
And after this what would happen is it will look for dependency.
Second step.
Now the dependency is on user.
So it has to be resolved right.
So now user is prototype.
So now at this time user object is created.
Because it is now it is required.
It is now used right.
So now user object would is initialized.
User is initialized.
Does user has any dependency.
No.
So it's post construct would be called that.
It's been is properly constructed user hash code.
Some user hash code is got that this is the user object.
So this user object is now injected here.
now.
Any more auto wire?
No.
So now it's post constructor will be invoked.
Student object.
hashCode.
Some hashCode user object.
So this is the user object would be seeing here.
So this is student object hashCode and this user object which was created.
This is what's created right.
So this is injected here.
Okay.
Till now all done.
Right.
So now application got started properly.
Now what would happen.
Let's say you hit the API fetch user.
So fetch user is here.
This API you hit.
Now when you invoke this API you know that this object would be created by IOC, right?
So this is a prototype.
So means IOC has to create a new object of test controller.
Right.
So it will create call its constructor test controller one instance initialization.
So till here we have seen application started.
Now we hit the API.
So test controller one instance initialization.
So what would happen after this.
It will look for dependency resolution first user.
So user is marked as prototype.
I told you that prototype means every time create a new object, even though user object is already
created and injected here in the student.
But here now this is also again object requested in test controller.
New object would be created.
So for user.
User new object would be created.
So with this hash code earlier when a student created it.
Was this hash code, right?
So now here if you see user is created with different different object is created for the user.
Okay.
Why?
Because it's a prototype.
Then a student a student is singleton.
So means only one object.
So it was eagerly initialized.
So whatever the object was there, it would get injected here.
So whatever the hash code of student was there, the same ultimately got injected here also.
So (209) 245-0685.
So because it's a singleton.
So same object is used in test controller one dependency.
But for user a new object is constructed.
Not this one because it's a prototype.
Because user is prototype every time new object is constructed.
Right.
So you understand like every time new object is constructed, if you hit this API, can you just check
one more time?
If you hit another time fetch user, what would happen if you hit another time?
What would happen?
Since this class is marked as prototype, a new object would be constructed for this.
So you will see one more like test controller, one instance initialization, one more object would
be created.
Okay, so prototype is very simple.
Every time new object is constructed and it's lazily initialized.
Third is request.
This is where ultimately confusion comes in because that's where one more things comes into the picture
when I show you this part.
Uh, this proxy mode.
So this proxy mode also comes into the picture here.
And that's what make, uh, engineers get At confused with this request.
Request a scope.
So what does it mean?
New object is created for each HTTP request.
For each HTTP request.
Let's say fetch user.
This is one HTTP request.
Now new object will be created for all the classes which are marked as request right.
And if in this API, if a particular object is required four times, we will not create four objects
only one time.
Okay, let's see that with an example.
And again it is lazily initialized.
So example is very simple.
Again I have created a test controller class right.
So it has one this API.
And I have marked this as request.
This has two dependency.
One is on user.
One is on student.
So let's see.
User first.
So user also I have marked as request right.
So means for each HTTP request a new object has to be created.
No dependency on this one.
And for student I called it as a prototype.
Means every time no matter what, every time new object should be there and it has a dependency on user.
So now let's see that when you start an application, what would happen?
And when you invoke this http API, what would happen, how this dependency resolution happen and scopes
comes into the picture.
So when you start an application, IOC will look for all the components at the request controller and
try to create a bean.
So this it would find test controller one scope is request.
So this is lazy initialized.
Nothing would happen.
Then it next goes to student.
It found this at the right component scope is prototype.
Again a lazily initialized.
Nothing will happen.
Then it will look able to see user because it is marked as at the right component.
But again its scope is also request which is lazily initialized.
So no object is created at the application startup.
So at application startup here you see that started Springboot application, but no object is created.
Okay.
Makes sense.
Now I am hitting the API fetch user the first time HTTP request is coming.
Now HTTP request is coming now what would happen?
So it has to create an object.
So this is request right.
So I called fetch user.
So now with for this HTTP request first test controller object would be created test controller one.
test controller, one instance initialization.
Okay, this will get printed.
Then.
Second it will look to resolve the dependency.
So it will goes to the user first user is also marked as request, so means only one instance or new
instance should be created for each request.
So for this request is there any user request now?
No.
So it will create new object user initialization.
So user initialization would happen.
Any dependency.
No.
So post construct would be user object hash code.
So some hash code would get come here.
Okay.
So user will get injected here.
After that it will resolve.
Student A student is prototype no matter whether this same request Different request it.
New object has to be created.
So a student a student instance initialization.
Now it will go and resolve the dependency.
It says that user.
Now here if you see that user is marked as request one object one object per request.
So one object is already created.
So student will use this.
No new object will be created.
So student will use this user right.
And student hash code so is hash code will come.
And what would be the user.
It it gonna use this user hash code.
So like this.
So this is the will expectation.
So test controller initialization happen.
So test controller ultimately goes to our user.
Right?
So we have seen that we have seen that user user object created with this one.
And this got injected into this test controller.
Now then student.
So student is prototype.
So new instance would be created.
And student is dependent on user.
And user is marked as request.
Right.
So same object would be used right.
The same thing is happening which we have seen with diagram.
So you got it right.
And this ultimately the test controller has this user and this student object.
Okay.
So this is if this is clear.
If this is clear the same thing is actually printing in the logs, actually.
Now, what would happen if the second time you are hitting the API, when the second time you are hitting
the API, what would happen?
So till here this is first call.
Right.
This is first call.
Now from here.
Second call.
Happening.
This.
Now when the second call happening again, I have also copy pasted the same diagram here so that I don't
have to scroll much.
So this is request right.
So now second request is coming.
So means a new object would be created for this one.
So it goes to again auto wired user.
User is again request a new object would be created for this one student.
A student is any way prototype doesn't matter, right?
It will use.
It will create a new object itself.
So I'll show you that first test controller instance initialization.
So now here, if you see when I when I hit the second time, it is trying to create a new bean for the
test controller one.
Then it goes to the user and it creates a new object for the user.
Earlier was this.
Now it's a different object because user is marked as request and this is the new HTTP request.
Then it goes to the student.
Student is prototype.
So no matter same request whatever.
New object would be created right.
And then test controller.
In the test controller we it has an object and a student.
Right.
So now here, if you see it has this user and student also has the same user.
So in the one request, one HTTP request no duplicate objects is created only one time.
So test controller class student class both wanted user object.
So user is created only one time 88929.
Right the same 88929.
So both test controller and student is using the same user class.
Okay.
And each HTTP request a new object is created.
I hope it's clear.
What does it http uh scope request means?
Now the problem comes in.
Can you answer me this one?
Consider this below request.
I have a test controller which I marked as single turn.
I have a class user which I marked as scope request.
So test controller one is dependent on this user.
What would happen.
Okay, so our basic understanding now is that singleton is.
Eagerly initialized.
Request scope is lazy.
Plus it is attached with.
HTTP request right attached with HTTP request.
So when you start an application.
So IOC will see that okay Rest controller.
This is Singleton.
So I can do legally initialize.
So it will try to create its object.
So what it will do is test controller one instance initialization test controller one instance initialization.
Now it will try to solve this dependency.
It goes to the user okay.
It says that hey user what is your scope?
It's a request.
Is there any during application startup.
Is there any active HTTP request is present?
No because application is starting.
There is no HTTP request.
So spring will not create its object and that's why it will get fail.
Error creating bean because it won't be it.
So the bean fail bean creation fail for this.
Because this dependency is not resolved.
Because scope for this user is request and request is tied up with an HTTP request during eagerly initialization.
Application startup.
There is no active HTTP request which it can bound to.
So how do you resolve this?
The question comes if you have any class which is singleton and it wanted to access, or it has a dependency
on a class which is scope request.
How do you resolve this?
Because during eager initialization it will fail.
So there is something called proxy mode.
So in your user class which is request, scope is request.
If you put a proxy mode like let's say scope proxy mode target underscore class.
So if you use this, what you are telling to spring boot is that, hey, create a proxy object at the
time of initialization, even though there is no HTTP request present.
You can create one proxy object of it, like dummy object of a user, and use it for your object creation.
Bin creation.
But when ultimately you gonna invoke me, right?
Then you can create a real object and tied up with HTTP request.
So I'll show you with an example.
Now the same example, but I have just added proxy mode here and started the application.
Now what would happen.
IOC will see this singleton test controller one instance initialization test controller one instance
initialization.
Now it has a dependency on user.
So generally it should be like user initialization printing right.
But no this user is request scope.
It should be with the HTTP request.
But I have put a proxy.
Okay, if there is no HTTP request present, create a dummy object.
So what it would do is create one dummy object dummy user object and insert it here inside a user.
So here if you see there is no user initialization call means user object is not created, but somehow
dummy object got inserted into this one.
So it inserted it and then post construct here user object.
Some hash code comes.
So some dummy object created.
So this success the being creation of test controller now got success.
Now when you hit this API now when I'm hitting this API.
So now this is one HTTP request.
So now this API.
What would happen is this actual dependency would get resolved.
So now here if you see when I hit this API at this point of time, it is actually creating the user
initialization.
User initialization.
There is no dependency user object.
And now this user object ultimately get inserted into here it update.
So you got it like what is request.
And there are lot of confusion happen with here.
So this request you understood that it is always tied up with HTTP request.
And if you are trying to create it like say you are a singleton or any application startup, you are
trying to access this class, you have to use proxy.
Otherwise it would fail.
Then there is something called session very very similar to HTTP request, but only thing is object
is created for each HTTP session.
You know that once HTTP session is created, HTTP session created.
You can call many HTTP calls.
So HTTP request one http request two, request three, request four.
So on till you don't end HTTP session right.
So now it's not tied up with each HTTP request.
One object is created per each HTTP session.
So it is lazily initialized right.
And generally when user access any endpoint right.
First session is created generally.
Right.
And it's remain active till it do not expires.
And you can.
So there might be some default expire time.
You can also configure the expire time in the application dot properties.
I think there is some like servlet session dot expiry sometime you can check this one, but there is
certain property which can tell which tell that this session should get expired after this time.
Otherwise spring use some default time, right?
So I have created one test controller one.
Now I can you can use this scope like this session.
It is dependent on this user.
So user is singleton right.
Very basic.
Now what would happen when you start an application.
So when you start an application this is lazily initialized.
So session.
So nothing will happen for this IOC will see that okay it is singleton lazy initialization is possible.
So user is initialized.
There is no dependency, so user object hash code would also get printed.
User initialized.
User hash code printed.
Now the first I am hitting this fetch user.
So I am hitting this.
So http session would get created right.
The first time it is creating so its object would create it.
Test controller one instance initialization.
So test controller one instance initialization.
Till here we have seen.
After that any dependency.
Yes it has dependency.
So it will see that okay this is singleton.
Only one object should exist it for IOC right.
So whatever the same object that will get injected here and then it will goes to the post construct.
So test controller one hash code and user hash code.
So whatever the user hash code, same would come here because the same is got injected here.
So test controller hash code, whatever the object is created.
And inside this test controller the dependency of user is the same one because this is singleton one
nine.
Okay, now I am calling the API again same.
So session is still running.
HTTP session is created when you call the first time, so it is not yet ended, so it is still in running.
So now I call the fetch user again.
So it is session.
So it will not create new object because this is just a new HTTP request, not a new session.
HTTP session is still valid.
It's not a new session.
So will it create new object?
No, it will not create new object.
So it just call the API.
No object creation happen.
Now here in the third I am calling logout API which ends this session.
Which end http session.
So here if you see this is logout API, I have called in this http servlet.
I specifically get the session and make it invalidate manually right.
You can also automate it using configuration, but just to demo it I manually invalidated this session.
So now in the logout I end the session.
Now I am calling the API again.
What would happen now you are calling the fetch user API again.
So now it will create a new session again because there is no session exist.
So new session again means new test controller one instance initialization.
Here.
Test controller one instance initialization after ending new object.
And this depend on user, but user is singleton so same singleton object would be used.
No new object should get created.
So what initially user was created right 619.
It's the same because it's singleton but new object for test controller is created because old session
was closed and new session is started.
So you got it session also.
So these are the main scopes.
And there is something called application.
So application is like very very similar to Singleton.
Singleton is like one object per IOC application says that one object within different IOC.
Let's say you you there are three IOC are running IOC one.
IOC two IOC three.
There are three.
IOC's are running.
To be honest, in this nine years of experience, I haven't found out this use case like one IOC is
running at a time, right.
But still it's better to understand this when multiple IOC are running and you want that only one object
is shared among them, then use application right Singleton.
Just make sure that in one IOC object only one object is constructed.
Application.
Make sure that one object across multiple IOCs.
Okay, so but that's why I haven't included it because I don't think it's very much popular.
But yes, it's better to learn it.
But that's just my opinion.
Okay, so see you guys.
I hope you will find this useful.
Please do share it with your connection if you like it.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: Dynamically Initialized Beans | Value Annotation ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in Spring Boot we are going to see how to dynamically initialize.
Been using Add the Value annotation.
If you remember in the Dependency injection video, I told you about unsatisfied dependency problem
and how you can resolve it using at the rate qualifier annotation.
Lot of comments I have received that hey, when we are using at the rate qualifier annotation, will
it not break dependency inversion?
So if you read all this right, all this red lines, you will find one thing that they are pointing
one only one thing that it will break dependency inversion.
Right.
So I'll tell you quickly tell you what is unsatisfied dependency problem how qualifier we are using
it.
And then two solution first and second solution how we can make it dynamic okay.
So in the unsatisfied dependency problem what is the problem is that There is an interface order and
there are two childs online order.
Offline order.
Both are at the rate components means manage by spring.
So very very basic class itself one constructor method and one create order method which is just printing
created online order created offline orders.
Very simple.
Now here what happening is we have a user class which is a controller.
Now it has a dependency on this order object.
So I have put auto wired order.
Now what would happen is when you start an application.
So this controller is singleton scope because if you by default is scope so it is initialized.
So spring will try to create its object.
And while creating an object it will try to resolve the dependency.
Now spring doesn't know hey which object to assign to this order, whether online order or offline order.
Now spring doesn't assume anything, so it will just fail.
Failed application.
Fail to start.
Error creating bean with name user.
It doesn't able to create the bean user because it not able to resolve the dependency order which one
online or offline.
So to solve this, we see that there is one more that at the rate primary and at the rate qualifier.
So how at the rate qualifier was solving it?
This we provided the qualifier one name to online order.
So in the online order above at the rate component we add at rate qualifier give any name.
Similarly, for offline we have added this annotation at rate qualifier, offline order object any name
and in this user class in this.
Apart from this, what we were doing before, we have also added this qualifier here spring when you
are creating an object of user, right?
So if there are more than one order like this is just an interface, right?
If there are multiple channels, you can which one, which object you have to assign to this one.
This this qualifier online order object.
So this object this class online order object will get injected here.
Right.
So this is where everybody pointed out that hey when we are using at the rate qualifier it's kind of
we are hard coded the value.
Now this order will always be like online order object.
If user wanted offline you can't do it.
Because now when spring will create a user object, it will only assign this online order.
So whenever you will hit an API, create order.
So order dot create order which one it will invoke online order one.
Created online order created online order.
So it breaks dependency inversion which says that dynamically you can provide any value.
Now it's not dynamic.
You have hard coded it.
So I'll tell you that The first solution for the dynamic using first is using qualifiers itself.
So the same order two childs online offline the same qualifiers is there for the online order.
Qualifier is present for the offline order.
Now here in the user class, what we have done is we have created two objects order same one order object
but qualifier is online order object right.
So this is the object online order object which is of type order and the qualifier is online order object.
Another is offline order object.
Again same type order only and the qualifier is offline order object okay.
So see both this online order and offline order.
Both are singleton.
Both are singleton only right.
So both beans will get constructed.
So this bean will get injected here into this respective objects Offline.
Offline.
Order bin will get injected here in this one.
Because of this qualifier, online order bin will get injected here in this object because of this qualifier.
Right.
So now here we have provided two objects.
Right.
Two qualifiers.
Two objects.
Now in this create user.
Now since we want dynamic based upon user.
So now let's say in the create order I have put okay.
Hey user what you wanted is online order.
Whether it's true or false is online order.
If it is an online order yes then use online order object create order.
Use this one.
Else if it is false it will goes to else part and use offline order object.
It will use this offline okay.
So that is clear that how you can create dynamically using at the rate qualifier.
And this is very very popular way.
This is how actually in live today industry does it.
So it's a industry standard way of doing it.
So the second this is kind of a second solution where you can dynamically initialize your beam.
So in the second way I have created an order.
You have online order offline order.
Now notice that there is no add the rate component.
There is no add the rate component here to where I am using configuration bin.
That's why I am manually providing the configuration now.
Okay, so now rest all the code is same.
So rest all code is same, no changes.
Only thing is I am using now at the rate bin.
I have already explained how to create a bin using rate bin annotation.
Now here see what I have done is create order bin.
So return type is order.
So it will create an order type whether online order or offline order.
But I want dynamically so I want I what I did is used at the rate value annotation.
So at the rate value annotation and this is a placeholder.
This is how you do it okay.
Boolean is Boolean is online order.
And this condition is same if it is online order return online order object else return offline order
object.
Now you can ask me hey, from where this value comes see at the rate value means at the rate value is
used to inject values from various sources like property file, environment variables or inline literals.
So in this examples this value is coming from configuration.
So in there is something called application dot properties.
I have already explained you in the Maven Avon, uh, Maven.
Uh, video.
Right.
I think from starting third or fourth in this playlist.
So in the application.properties I have set is online order, I have put false.
So now what would happen is this configuration ultimately gets set into here.
Right.
So what spring will does is so whenever spring will see that okay at the right value is there.
And whatever the placeholder is online order.
Now spring will see okay.
In the configuration is same value present.
If yes it will use this.
So the false would be assigned here.
So now what would happen is is online order false.
It will return offline order object okay.
So whenever spring has to create a bean of order it will now use this okay.
So now what would happen when you start an application.
So in the user here if you see this is at the rate controller and it's a singleton.
So during application startup eagerly spring try to initialize this eagerly so it will create a user
bean.
Now it will see that any dependency yes order it has to resolve.
So now spring tries to resolve or create an order bean which one online or offline?
Now here, if you see no at the rate component is present.
So it will see okay.
Is there any configuration I have been provided?
Yes.
There is a configuration provided for order now.
It will use this.
Now it will run this and see that okay.
At the rate value.
Any property file something present.
Yes.
In property file it able to find this value false okay.
Offline order.
So this will get inserted with offline order okay.
And when you will hit this API order dot create order will be called offline order created offline order.
And if you want to change dynamically in the application.properties itself, change it to true when
you change it to true.
Ultimately, this will get changed to online order because it's like true, it will return online order.
So see, dynamically we are changing it.
But here instead of client input we are changing it based on configuration.
And in the first example we have seen based on the client input how you can do it.
Okay.
So you understand this at the right value right.
It is used to inject value from various sources like property file and inline literals.
Inline literals means you can also provide accurate value directly.
Literal string literal.
You have provided false true directly, right?
So this value will get set to whatever you have set.
So in this case false.
I hope this should be clear now how to dynamically initialization of been.
If there is any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot @ConditionalOnProperty Annotation ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Suryansh.
And today in Springboot I will tell you one more very important annotation conditional on property.
So this what makes this annotation very important.
Because in a large scale application where there are thousands of beans.
Right.
And many of those beans are initialized during application startup.
Okay.
So it will cluttered your application context during with the unnecessary beans also which might you
not required.
So that's where this annotation comes into the picture.
And that's what makes it very very important.
Interview question that how we can uncluttered our application context with unnecessary beans.
Okay.
So we will understand this properly with an examples and advantage and disadvantage of it.
So let's start.
So what does it mean conditional on property.
As the name says that bean is created conditionally.
What does it mean if condition becomes true, been would be created.
If condition is false.
Beans would not be created.
Okay, so just understand this.
Understand with this example you already know the behavior of this.
So I have created two class.
No.
No SQL connection and MySQL connection.
Both are annotated with at the root component just a constructor inside it.
Similarly I have db connection which has dependency on this MySQL connection and no SQL connection okay.
Again at the root component are managed by Spring Boot.
And then we have at the root post construct uh, which only get initialized after only get invoked after
the bean is successfully created.
So there I am printing that.
Okay.
Uh, DB connection bean is created.
And if this object is null or not, if this object is null or not okay.
So you know that if I start the application, what would happen?
So whenever to start an application what would happen is by default our single turn, so means eagerly
initialized.
So what would happen is no SQL connection object would be initialized.
So it's initialization of NoSQL bean.
Initialization of MySQL connection bean will get printed.
Okay, after that spring boot.
Also find this because this is also singleton by default.
So after the bean is created it will try to uh, inject the my SQL and NoSQL dependency into it.
So it will inject it.
So this is the object for this one.
And this is the object for this one.
So after this post construct would get invoked DB connection been created with dependency below.
It will print is MySQL object null?
No.
It will have the proper object reference.
False.
Is NoSQL object null?
No.
False.
Okay, so you already know the behavior of this.
But now if interviewer asks you what if we want to create only one bean?
Either my SQL or NoSQL.
Okay, so the background of this question is that in a company, what generally happens is there is
a kind of a migration.
Always some migrations keep on happening.
So let's say that companies migrating from MySQL to NoSQL now company has now let's say fully migrated.
Now they want to stop creating bean of it, only want to create a bean of this NoSQL.
So that's why the question can comes here is if you want to create only one bean, either this or this,
depending upon the migration, some feature.
So this is the use case one.
And another use case which comes is that we have two components sharing same code base but one component
need MySQL connection and another need no SQL connection.
So the background of this is that in most of the application, what generally happen is let's say you
have two application application one.
Application two.
And there is some let's say common code base.
So this application in its Pom dot XML file has dependency on this common code base.
Similarly, application two also has in Pom.xml.
Dependency is set for this common code base, so both the application is depend on this common code
base.
Now, in this common code base you have MySQL connection.
And NoSQL connection class.
Now.
No SQL connection class is needed by application one.
And MySQL connection is needed by application two.
But the question is that for application one, MySQL should not be should not be created.
And for application two only MySQL connection bin is required.
No SQL bin should not be created.
So in short the same same only one bin can be created for an application.
So how you can do that?
The answer is at the rate conditional on property annotation.
It's a very, very simple but important to understand the use cases properly.
So now the same example I am showcasing with at conditional on property annotation.
So here in this one here, if you see the same class MySQL connection annotated with at the rate added
component and no SQL connection class annotated with added component.
But now here I am adding one more annotation at the rate conditional on property.
Now this has four parts.
One is prefix, second is value.
So these two prefix and value forms your key in an application dot properties.
So in application dot properties the first part is your prefix.
Then there is a dot and after dot whatever the part you have that makes your value.
So here we have SQL connection as a prefix enabled as value.
So in application property your key is SQL connection dot enabled.
So this is your key.
Okay.
So.
This becomes your key now with prefix and value right, separated by dot.
Now the third part is having value.
So this is a string.
So here you can put anything right.
So for now in this example I have put SQL connection dot enabled.
True.
You can also put any string let's say SQL or anything.
Right.
It's a string.
So for now I have just put true.
So now what it will do is the third part is match.
So in the application dot properties, whatever the value you have put here for this key, whatever
the key value you have put here, it will match it with this here.
Okay.
So that's what I am trying to say.
This is just a string you can put here.
If you are putting SQL you can also put SQL here also.
So it's just a matching string.
So for this prefix dot value which makes a key in an application dot property whatever the key value
it is.
Evaluator.
It will if it get matched with this having value this.
If it get matched with this then only been will get created.
Okay, if not, if they are not matched then been will not get created.
Okay, so there is one.
Another thing is match if missing.
So let's say in application dot properties this this key is not not present itself.
So do you want to consider this as a being I should create been or not.
So that's what if you make it false means if this property is not present, if this key is not present
considered as false, you should not create the been.
So you got this right this four values of this.
So now what do you understand with this.
So here in the conditional on property SQL connection dot enabled in the application dot properties
I have put true.
Having value is also true right and match is missing is false.
Similarly for NoSQL prefix is this NoSQL connection enabled?
Having value is true match if missing is false.
Okay, so now this is first part.
This annotation is just a first part and this is your second part.
So wherever you are using this dependency.
So now my DB connection is dependent on my SQL and NoSQL.
And these classes are annotated with at the right condition on property.
So we have to make this required equals to false.
Because when you only do auto wired by default internally your required is true okay.
By default required is true.
What does this tells to the spring boot?
That hey, when you are creating a bean of db connection object of if auto wired is true, required
is true.
The object of this dependency should get resolved.
Means it should be present.
This object should be present.
But when you say that required equals to false means, that object might not get be present means.
For this MySQL connection I have put required equals to false.
So it tells that hey, concert is not as a fast fail if if the bean you don't find the bean of MySQL
connection it's okay.
Required is false right?
Make it null and proceed further.
Okay so you understand write required equals to false is required.
Is required whenever that particular dependency.
Let's say in this case dependency is MySQL SQL connection here.
So that is annotated with at the rate conditional on property.
Okay.
So these are the two parts whenever you use and at the rate conditional on property.
Now you start an application.
What would happen.
So now when you start an application.
So first Spring Boot will see this okay.
At the rate component uh it is a default singleton.
So it is uh eligible for lazy initialize uh not lazy eager initialization.
But now it, it sees hey at the rate conditional on property is also defined.
So it will make a key.
Using this prefix and value Sqlconnection dot enabled.
It will make a key look into the application dot properties okay it found the key.
Now it will check out its value.
Key value.
It's true.
Now it will compare this string with this having value okay now it matches.
If it matches means yes object need to be created so this object will get created.
Initialization of my my MySQL connection bin.
So initialization of MySQL connection bin.
Now spring boot found this NoSQL connection.
It's a singleton.
Yes.
Uh eagerly initialization can be done.
But now at the rate conditional on property found it.
Now it make a key NoSQL dot enable NoSQL connection dot enabled.
So now it will look into the application dot property.
Does it found this NoSQL connection dot enable.
No.
So match is missing.
So it is missing I have to match it.
False.
So means there is no match.
So bean should not be created for this one.
So here if you see there is no bean for NoSQL connection is created.
Now this got spring boot.
Got this again a singleton eagerly initialization.
So bean would be created for DB connection.
Now it will resolve the dependency for this to.
my SQL bean is existing.
Yes, MySQL bean is existing so it will get a reference for this one object.
NoSQL NoSQL a bean existed no, because unconditionally condition become false, right?
Because this are prefix value does not exist.
So bean is not created.
So bean is not created but it will check.
Hey the required is marked as false or true.
So it is false.
Then it's okay.
It will keep it null.
But if it is marked as true or by default you didn't give it or don't give it, then it is considered
true.
Only in that case this will fail, right?
But since we have make required equals to false means, even though bean doesn't exist for this, it's
okay.
It will make it null and proceed further.
So Dbconnection bean is created post construct object is method is invoked so it will print this line
first.
Dbconnection been created.
Is my SQL connection object null?
This one?
No, because this bin is created right?
MySQL bin is created because of the prefix value was present properly.
So it's false.
First one is false.
No, it is not null.
Is NoSQL object null?
Yes, it is null because it's a prefix value.
There was no key present and that's why it become false and no object created.
Okay, so it will print true here.
So you got it.
Now I am controlling the creation of a bean through this annotation okay.
And it's configurable means you can put into your application dot properties.
And if you want to enable a NoSQL connection you can put here NoSQL Connection enabled.
I told you that it is just a string you can put.
Let's say you want instead of true false.
You can put NoSQL something and the same value.
You can put it here NoSQL.
So means one this two matches right.
This two matches.
This two string matches.
Then only it is considered as this hit and then only been will be created.
Right.
And if itself it is missing.
Missing means you can tell okay if it is missed I still I want to create a bin put true if it is missing
and you don't want to create a bin, put false.
Okay, so I hope this would be clear.
So what are the advantages and disadvantages of it.
Very important advantage first is very very visible is toggling of feature right I told you right.
First use case in which happens into the company is that they are keep on migration happening.
So you can put a toggle.
Now you want to toggle from MySQL to NoSQL using just an application property.
You can add this toggling and automatically that particular bean will start getting created right.
Avoid cluttering of application context with unnecessary beans.
Consider the scenario where applications are thousands of beans out of the thousands of beans.
There might be so many beans which are not unnecessary, right?
So we can avoid application context to be like cluttered with those unnecessary beans and we can control
them their creation using this annotation.
Save memory.
So during application startup all the beans get created and it is stored.
So it requires certain memory right?
So when you are controlling the creation of the beans and you are not creating bean of the unnecessary
classes, then you are saving the memory, right?
So that is also one advantage.
Another is reduce application startup times.
So I told you all eagerly initialized beans which are generally singleton at the.
When you start an application that time object is created for them.
Bean is created for them.
Now consider that during application startup you have to create 1000 beans, right?
So it will definitely take memory and the time also.
So if you are controlling that okay.
For unnecessary beans I don't have to create it.
Your application startup time will get reduced okay.
So these are the advantages.
We should uh we should tell when interviewer asks.
And the disadvantage is that misconfiguration can happen.
So for example now in the application dot properties you have to put the value right.
So misconfiguration means you want it to put true.
But by mistake you put false.
You wanted some value as well.
Here you have put SQL but somewhere here put true having value.
True.
You want a true false but somewhere put SQL.
So some misconfiguration happens, right?
Code complexity increases.
Code complexity increases when over use.
Now consider the scenario where you have hundred of classes and above 100 of classes.
You have put this annotation.
Now it's always you have to go and check the property file.
Hey is this been creation is what is it enable or not.
Right.
So that is like little code complexity increases where it's always like will the bean will get created
or not.
You have to keep on checking application property file.
Third is another is like multiple bean creation with same configuration.
So what if what if if the same configuration with the SQL connection dot enable what for the NoSQL?
Also, I am using SQL connection not enabled.
What if the with the same configuration I am controlling the bin creation of multiple classes?
That is wrong right?
This creates confusion.
So multiple bin creation with same configuration brings confusion.
So that should be avoided.
Complexity in managing I already told you, you have to keep on managing the property files and their
value equivalent values in this annotation.
So there is some managing you have to do.
So these are the advantages and disadvantages of this annotation.
But do try it out because this is used a lot in the live application production application.
Right.
And this is a very valid two use cases which today in life you will find this use cases and where this
annotation helps you.
Okay.
So if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss more and we'll see you in the next video.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot Profiling and @Profile Annotation ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today we will see about add the rate profile annotation.
Very very important right.
And you will find certain new stuff in this that what is profiling okay.
But before we start profile in the previous topic I have told you about at the rate conditional on property
annotation.
Right.
So you already know that what's conditional on property.
If you haven't seen just check it out because they are interconnected.
How?
I will tell you.
So in just one quick recap, at the rate conditional on property, what does it say is that bean is
created conditionally means a bean can be created or not.
Okay, so how we can control whether a bean is, uh, required or not.
So through this annotation here we in the Application.properties Is we provide this configuration SQL
connection dot enabled and this value get match up.
If it is equal then only been will get created.
Otherwise been will not get created.
Okay.
And I have asked this question okay.
If you have two application, if you have two application and one common code base, how you will make
sure that bin is only created for one application, not for other.
Okay, so most of the answers were at the rate conditional on property, which is expected one.
And also many engineers also said that we can also achieve through at the rate profile annotation.
And we will use at the rate profile annotation.
Okay.
So today I will touch up this point because this is very important to understand Stand the proper use
of profile.
So yes, you can achieve the same functionality through at the right profile annotation, but technically
at the rate profile is intended for environment separation rather than application specific bin creation.
What does it mean?
Like don't worry, I will get in depth of this right?
So we will understand the profile better.
But for now you need to see that yes with profile also this is possible to do.
A bin can be created only for one application and for other.
This bin will not be created itself.
But this is not the.
You can say that technically it's not correct, but it can be done.
And we will come to this question again at last, once we understand the at the right profile annotation.
Okay, let's deep dive into the accurate profile annotation to understand it better.
Consider this scenario that you have a DB and you are running certain code in your local machine.
So some some says local machine, some says dev development.
Okay, so username and password which you are using to connect to a database might be certain different.
So it's like dev username dev password.
But if the same code you are running on a stage machine or in a QA environment, right.
So maybe the username and the password might be different to connect to a database okay.
And similarly the same code if you are running in live or production, the username and password might
be different than your local machine.
And then state machine.
Right.
So username and password might be different to connect to a database.
So we have different type of environments when we work the same code.
Okay.
When it refers to a particular configuration.
So here the configuration is username and password.
So when I'm running into my local system I might I might don't have to give anything I have configured
like username and password should be empty in QA.
It should be like some certain dummy username password.
We can put same username, same password, but in stage or in production it should be a valid username.
Valid password.
Okay so the same code but the configuration is different based upon the environment which you are working,
how you will.
And generally one more thing this username and password is just one example.
There are so many other configurations which are different for different environments.
Okay, so Dave and live production.
So there are so many things like URL and port number.
So maybe when you're connecting to certain your this is your app, you're connecting to some other application,
some other application dependent application.
So maybe the URL you are connecting and the port number you are connecting might be different.
So port number here is 45613.
In QA it might be same 45613.
But in live it is different 65121.
What I'm trying to say is that the URL and port number can be another configuration, which can be different
based on the environment.
So there are other parameters like connection timeout request timeout values.
These also differs based upon different environment.
Okay.
So your live resources your live machine has too much resource.
Your development machine, your local machine is not that capable compared to the live machines.
Similarly, QA machines might be better than dev but not better than the production.
So the connection timeout value might be you.
You might you might need connection.
Uh, time in millisecond might be here.
You want 1000 milliseconds for connection in QA you might need 500.
But in live you require only let's say 50 milliseconds.
So these value also differs based upon environment.
Similarly throttle value retry values.
You might want more retries in dev than in QA than in live okay.
So username and password is just one example.
What I want to say.
In short there are so many different parameters, different configuration which you need different for
different environments.
So how you will achieve it, how you will do it because we put the configurations in application dot
properties file.
But how to handle different environment configuration.
So these are the configuration but it's different for dev.
These are the configuration different from QA.
Similarly for live different configurations.
But till now we have seen only okay there is only one file Application.properties.
How in this single file we will put all three different configuration.
Okay.
That's where the profiling comes into the picture.
Okay.
I'm not telling you about at the rate profile annotation.
Now first you need to understand profiling to understand the profile annotation okay.
So at the rate profiling comes into the picture at this point of time.
So what does profiling means in Spring Boot.
So we have a file called application dot properties.
Okay.
So we can I told you that we can have different environments in Spring Boot.
You can say that we can have different profiles okay.
Like and you can have multiple application dot properties like this application hyphen your profile
one dot properties application hyphen profile two dot properties.
Similarly like different environments you have different profiles you have.
So what I told you that the profile in Spring Boot is nothing but equivalent to your environment.
So if you have application hyphen dev dot properties.
So this property will contain all the configuration which you required only for dev.
So you have another for QA, right.
For stress testing.
So application hyphen QA dot properties.
This will all the configuration which you require for your QA.
Similarly for your let's say hyphen live dot properties application hyphen live dot properties.
Okay.
So we can have multiple applications profiles based upon the environments you have.
Okay.
So see this part.
See this example.
So I have application dot properties in that I have provided a username and password and certain default
values.
And I have created multiple profiles.
Right.
And you know when I say profiles means multiple environment specific application dot properties.
So application hyphen dev dot properties.
So this is my profile one.
So there if you say username and password is Dave.
Username Dave password.
Similarly I created second profile application dot properties and it's username password is different
SCPs username password.
Similarly for life I have a configuration inside application hyphen prod dot properties and username
password is prod username prod password okay so now this under uh consider this code very very simple
code a simple class with at the rate component annotation means it is getting managed by Spring Boot.
I have two parameters which are annotated with at the rate value means this value is getting filled
up from this configuration.
Application.properties configuration.
Okay, so this field is getting filled from username Spring Boot will search this name into a application.properties
file.
Similarly, the password is getting filled from same as the rate value means application.properties
file, and after the post construct means when the bean is constructed, I am just printing this value.
What is the username?
What is the password?
Very very simple.
You already know it because we have already seen these examples.
Now when I run the application, what would happen when you run the application?
Spring boot will find this at the root component.
And since it is singleton means it is eligible for eager initialization.
So spring boot will create a bean out of it and will try to.
Then once bean is created, it will try to resolve this dependencies.
So it will try to fill up this username and password.
So it will look application.properties.
Now there are multiple application dot properties present.
Which one to pick.
It will see that hey any profile is set.
Do have we set any profile still yet.
Nothing.
We just have created multiple properties files but we haven't set.
Currently we are working on which profile so which one it will pick this default one.
So Application.properties considered is as your default.
If you haven't set any profile that.
Hey, I am working on this Dave, I'm working on this QA or I am working on this prod production, then
Spring Boot will pick this default okay.
And it will try to see that hey username is present here.
Yes.
So it will fill this default username in this similarly password.
It will fill default password here and it will proceed further.
So now here if you see when the starting the application what is the username it got printed.
The default username.
Default password.
Okay.
So because till now we haven't set the profile.
Okay.
So now we have seen this.
Now you can ask me hey how to set the profile.
Then if I want to pick let's say I am working in QA, I want to set this profile on.
And I wanted this configuration to pick up actually to connect to my database how to do that.
So what we have to do is we have to use this configuration spring dot profile dot active.
We have to set this configuration.
So how generally we do this in Application.properties right.
Which is generally you can say the default one.
You can put this configuration spring dot profiles dot active and whatever the profile which you wanted.
So this is the profiles, right?
Either Dave whatever you can give any name development local anything but the same name you have to
provide here.
So Dave QA or prod.
So these are the profile.
So whichever profile you wanted Spring Boot to pick you can provide in this configuration.
So here now what I have given is in this application dot properties this profile I have set to QA okay.
And the same example.
Nothing changed in this class.
Nothing changed in this all three.
Now when I started the application you will see that Spring boot has set the profile what the profile
is set to QA.
Okay.
So when you start a spring boot application what happens is the spring boot application.
Look for this configuration and see that, hey any specific profile I need to set If yes, if if it
find this, then what it will do is you will see this message that this is the profile is got set.
So QA.
So now Springboot internally will look for application hyphen QA dot properties.
So it found this.
So now it will use this okay.
So now consider this as a parent child.
So if username is present here username is present here.
This will get now prioritized okay.
If let's say some some configuration x y z is present here but it is not present here.
Right.
And your code is referring to that.
Hey look for x y, z.
And even though we have set the profile to QA, the XYZ is not here.
So but it's there in the parent.
It will use this.
So you got it.
What I'm trying to say is that consider this as a parent configuration.
This is as a child configuration.
If value is present in both the child one will get priority.
Otherwise, if value is not present child but present into the parent, the parent one will be used
okay.
And if it is not there in the parent, and if it is there in the child, child one will be used.
And if it is present in both the child one will get priority.
Okay, so now here when I run the application you will see that.
Yeah.
Spring boot had set the profile QA because of this.
And while getting when Spring Boot encountered this class with the added component, it will try to
fill up this value.
Now it will see that okay username and password is present into application dot properties and also
its profile QA application dot underscore QA dot properties.
So it will give priority to this one.
So QA username and password will get filled up here.
Got it.
So spring dot profiles.
Dot active is the one which tells spring Boot that which specific profile you are working at, right.
So which configuration you have to pick either this either this or either this.
Now you can ask one question that hey okay it's good that in application dot properties we can provide
like we can give by default that hey by default every every time day only.
But dynamically I want to change.
Let's say my I am going to start my application in live.
I don't want to change it to here like uh, production every time.
And all right.
So by default I have given that it should be working as a dev, but how to set this dynamically.
So this is how generally done.
So there are two ways I will tell you two ways how it's done currently in live applications.
So ultimately what we have to do is during application startup, we have to tell Spring Boot and set
this configuration.
They spring boot.
Uh this is the configuration we have set.
Use that specific environment.
How to tell that.
So currently when you when this is started this is started through intelligent intelligence.
You get run option right.
So IntelliJ when you just click on button run right.
Ultimately internally it's running the command only.
So this is the actual command to run the spring boot.
So Maven spring boot colon run.
So this actually starts the spring boot application okay.
Like similarly how it is starting the similar way if you run this this much Maven spring boot colon
run.
So this will start your spring boot application.
Now we want to give in a runtime dynamically that which environment you are currently working at.
So we can give like this.
So hyphen D means you are setting and during you are setting some environment variable write your settings
of ten properties.
So hyphen D now spring hyphen boot dot run dot profiles.
So means during run application startup spring boot dot run.
So this is you are running a spring boot right.
So spring boot dot run dot profiles you set to prod okay.
So what it internally it will do is it will set this spring dot profiles dot active to prod.
Even though you have application.properties you have given dev.
But if you are setting it dynamically in the environment, this will get more priority.
okay.
If you don't give it, then it will use the default one which you have given in the application dot
properties.
If you provided this one, then this will your ultimate priority.
This will be given the first priority.
Okay, so whenever you are running an application in live or QA, right.
So you can run using this and provide whether which environment you are working, whether in QA, prod,
dev, whatever.
Okay.
There is another way that in in if you're working, you might check your company's pom.xml file.
You will see something called profiles.
The same thing which we are setting right this spring.
Hyphen boot, dot run, dot profile.
The same thing we can set through.
We can add this configuration into Maven.
So these are the different profiles I have added into Pom.xml.
So first profile is I have given name local.
This ID is unique so you can give anything.
So I have given local.
And the property in this one is a spring hyphen boot dot run dot profile.
The same thing this one.
So dev I want to set into this when this is chosen.
So this is the second profile which I have given a name production.
So whenever this ID is chosen what is the profile I want to set prod.
And the third profile I have set is that which I have given a name stage.
When this ID is chosen, what is the profile?
I want to set QA okay.
Now during Maven spring boot application command Maven Spring boot run all we have to tell that which
configuration to pick.
I have just tell hyphen p.
Hyphen p means you have to pick a particular profile from a maven.
Pom.xml.
Which one?
Production one.
So production one this id.
So what it will do is it will set this property hyphen spring boot, dot run, dot profile prod.
This is just different way of doing what we are doing here.
So here we have done the same thing but without pom.xml.
So that's why we have to set the complete configuration here.
Otherwise in the pom.xml you can set this values only during application startup.
You can tell that okay which one to pick either this either this or this.
And the same thing the same configuration will get set with this value.
So both are doing the same thing but one through Pom.xml and another is without pom.xml.
Whichever you like.
Generally this are in the applications live application.
This is mostly preferred like.
It's clear that write the command is generally clear that you want to run it like for a production,
for stage, for local, because you give proper naming.
Okay.
So here if you see that when I run this command Maven spring boot run hyphen D is spring boot run profiles
prod even though it's whatever it is present here.
What happen is spring dot profile is set to prod and when you run it you will see prod username prod,
password.
Okay.
Profile is set to prod.
So do you understand now what profiling is, right?
You understand now?
Profiling is right.
What profiling is.
We have different environments.
And for different environments we have different configurations.
Those are environments in spring boot generally known as profiles.
So we have to choose a particular profile when running the application.
If you don't choose default one will be chosen.
If you have to choose specifically, you have to set the spring profiles dot active configuration.
Okay.
Now with that being said, now let's see what is at the profile annotation.
Then I understand the profiling, but what is at the profile annotation.
So using the profile annotation we can tell Spring boot to create a bean only when particular profile
is set.
Now here in this just see an example I'll tell you with this example again in the Application.properties
username.
Password.
What is the profile asset QA.
Similarly, dev qa prod is files are present but profile is set to this.
Now here if you see that I have created two classes.
One is MySQL connection.
This is a at the root component managed by Spring Boot.
And I have put the profile is at the profile annotation prod.
Similarly there is another class called NoSQL at the root component.
And what is the profile I have said dev.
Now as per the definition, what it says that it tells spring boot to create bean only when a particular
profile is set.
So now when you started an application Maven Spring Boot run, either through IntelliJ or you run this
command, both are the same thing.
What it what it will happen.
So first during application startup, it will set its profile to QA okay.
It will set its profile to QA because spring Dot profiles dot active is set to QA.
Now it will find this class with at the root component.
And since it is single turn can be eagerly initialized it will.
Spring boot will try to create its bean, but then it identify at the root profile annotation and it
says that hey, I have to create only its bean when this profile is set prod.
But currently what is the profile is set QA so you can say that it's a string matching.
So is prod equals to equals to QA like strings.
Dot equals like something you can do right.
So is it matching prod and QA matching.
No.
So this profile will this bean will not be created.
Then spring boot will find NoSQL connection class.
And let's see that.
Hey, can I create a bin of this?
Okay, I have to create it's bin only when dev profile is set.
So what is the profile set currently QA.
They are not matching.
So this bin will also not get created.
So here if you see when I started the application this two are not getting printed.
So these are not created.
Bin is not created.
Now I am just uh with the same example right.
Even though in the application dot properties QA is present, but while running the application I am
dynamically setting that hey, set the profile to prod.
And when I run the application here, here if you see what profile is set prod.
Now during uh bin initialization it will find this MySQL connection.
It will find the profile.
Hey okay I have to create the bin only when prod this profile is set.
So prod it's gonna match with this period.
It's match, right?
So here, if you see my SQL prod username prod password is set.
Okay.
Because of this configuration prod configuration spring boot will try to pick the name which you have
given right prod.
So application hyphen prod dot properties.
So it found this also.
So username password is set this.
And also because of this at the rate profile it matches that this is matching with the profile or not.
If it match then only been will get created.
No SQL here if you see that it's set to dev, but our profile is prod so it don't match.
So my NoSQL is been is not even created.
Okay so you got it that at the rate profile annotation what it does is It tells Spring Boot to create
a bean only when specific specific profile is set.
Okay, so there is one more thing I want to tell that don't get confused with this that we can also
set multiple profiles at a time.
So here if you see that spring dot profiles dot active prod underscore q.
So this is doesn't make sense.
You can't work in two environment at the same time.
You can't work in prod and QA at the same time.
Okay.
But you can provide comma separated prod underscore.
So what would happen is whatever the last you have that would be picked actually.
Okay.
So spring dot profiles dot active.
So which which application properties would be used.
QA one the last one.
But this comma separated is mostly helpful in at the rate Profile because multiple profiles are set.
So here if you see I have given prod underscore QA.
So this class when the spring will try to create a bean it will set that profile prod.
Yes it is set for this class.
No SQL connection.
What is the profile QA.
Yes this is also set.
So both will get created.
So here if you see both will get created because both profiles are set.
But which application dot properties.
It will pick the last one QA.
So it will pick QA QA username password for both QA username for MySQL QA username for NoSQL also okay.
So you can give comma separated.
So only one application dot properties would be picked.
Only the last one.
But the since but the profiles will set to all uh all these profiles will get set which might help in
this annotation.
Okay.
So now let's come back to the previous question, which I asked starting you have two application.
You have two application and one common code base.
How you will make sure that bin is only created for one application, not for another.
So that is like this is a common code base.
Okay.
In this one I have given a profile app one.
Okay.
Now this is application one.
In application one, application dot properties I have set spring dot profiles, dot active app one
and in application do I have set spring dot profiles dot Active app two.
So during this application startup what is the profile will set F1.
And for this one during application startup profiles got set to app two.
Now during when spring find this and it try to create a bin.
It will say that hey if this profile is set F1 so only for this bean would get created here.
AP2 doesn't so bean will not get created for this.
So yes, we can achieve it.
But see again this is not environment.
Your F1 is not environment.
Okay.
Your app two is not environment.
Environment is like development environment stage environment live production environment.
Even though we are able to achieve the this part right.
Conditionally creation of bean.
But making use of profile to achieve this is something.
If I am the peer reviewer, I will not accept it because the purpose of profiling is different.
You might understand that because I have told you what is profiling before even tell you at the profile
annotation.
What's the actual purpose of this?
Profiling different environments.
So when you're setting this F1.
So I am, uh, specifically that you have like application hyphen F1 dot properties.
That doesn't make sense because in every application you can either have application dot properties
and different environment like dev QA production.
So this doesn't make sense to have this.
So this create confusion.
Hey what is this.
Is this like profile is generally everybody understand as an environment right.
So use at the rate conditional on property rather than using profile for conditional creation of bin.
Okay.
So while telling you at the rate profile annotation I have told you that why this is the correct answer.
Why this is not.
Even though we can achieve the same, but still.
I want to hear you on the comment section.
What do you think?
And if there is anything we can discuss more.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Spring boot AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming) ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in Spring Boot we are going to complete this spring AOP.
So I'm taking it Marc let's start with aspect oriented programming which is AOP.
And that is being used by many other topics which we are going to cover like transactional.
Okay.
That's why I wanted to cover it before.
So in simple term, if you want to explain AOP, we can say that it helps to intercept the method invocation.
Right.
And we can perform some tasks before and after the method.
Okay.
So what AOP says that hey you allow it, allow us to focus on business logic by handling boilerplate
and repetitive code like logging, transaction management, etc..
What I mean to say here is let's say you want to have a certain business logic like this is your current
business logic, but many times there are certain piece of code which we have to write.
Let's say you have to keep logging certain things.
You have to keep logging after your business logic runs and also transaction.
You have to start transaction, you have to end the transaction.
And if some issue comes you have to roll back.
Okay.
So there are few things which is apart from your business logic that is known as boilerplate means which
you have to do.
And these are repetitive means it is not just for one, one class or one method.
If you have 100 methods which required logging, you have to do the same thing.
If you have 100 method which require transactional property, you have to start and end the transaction.
Rollback all these things.
So these are repetitive code in your business repo.
So that's where AOP says that, hey, you focus on business logic.
This boilerplate and repetitive code.
I will take care of it so you don't need to handle.
Put it over here.
You can remove logging and transaction rollback.
All you have is now your business logic.
And somehow this logging transaction management AOP will take care of it.
How we will see that.
So aspect.
So when we say that aspect oriented programming what is aspect means.
Aspect is a module which handles this repetitive and boiler code.
So I told you right.
This repetitive and boiler code like logging and all transaction commands and all these are repetitive
and boiler code.
So all this logic can go to a particular place that we call generally an aspect.
So what does it helps.
It helps in achieving the reusability and maintainability of the code.
Definitely.
So now in this aspect, let's say we have put logging.
Now if even at 100 places you want to put the log right.
You don't have to write the same logic again and again at 100 places.
Uh, in your main core business place, you don't even have to write it.
Aopp will automatically take care of putting the logging either you want, before or after, or both.
Right.
So all the hundred places can use this code, right?
So it helps in achieving the reusability and maintainability of the code.
So only one place is where it has to maintain.
And any changes made it here.
All hundred places will get impacted with that.
So maintainability is easy.
So dependency.
So before we start using AOP.
This depend this dependency.
We have to add into our Pom dot XML.
So you can add this dependency in your pom.
Okay.
Spring.
Hyphen boot.
Hyphen starter.
Hyphen AOP.
Okay.
This is very very simple example when I am showing you the demo like what exactly it does.
But don't worry about this.
Uh, whatever you see here, right at the right aspect at the right before, don't worry about it at
all.
It just want to show you that when I told you it helps to intercept the method.
What exactly it is.
So now let's say that this is one of my class.
Now in this class, this is a rest controller class where I have exposed an rest API like path.
This fetch employee slash API slash fetch employee I have exposed like this.
Now here, if you see that I am just returning item fetch.
So this is my business logic.
This is my business logic.
But I wanted something before it return.
Before this method get executed, I have to perform certain tasks.
So what happen is I have here.
If you see, you won't see anything.
But this is one aspect I created in that I have written one method.
Don't worry about all these things.
How this I have written one method which does something, let's say logging.
Consider this as it is logging.
Consider this system dot println is at I am logging, so I am just logging that.
Hey, I am inside this before method aspect.
Okay, now I started the application.
So here if you see application started properly, now I am hitting the request that in the localhost.
I am hitting this API fetch employee.
Now.
Before the invocation of this before the execution of this method, what would happen is this before
method will get invoked.
So this will logging will happen inside before method aspect.
So here if you see it will first print inside before method aspect.
After this it will return the item fetch item.
After this it will return the item fetch.
Okay, so this is what I mean to say when I say that AOP helps you to intercept the method, right?
So before this method get invoked, it intercepted it.
It performs certain tasks.
Right.
And then it calls the method.
Then this method works happen.
And if there is something after you have to do.
so.
There is.
You can also perform certain task after this method execution also.
Now the main thing what exactly how it is happen, how this interception happen, how this interception
internally works.
Right.
So now we all have to understand that part.
Now let's slowly goes to each and every part of it.
Okay.
If you don't understand in a single shot please check it again.
I will try to go slow because this is lot of things going to come into this.
Okay.
So first thing first the aspect class where we are going to write our boiler code, right.
We have to annotate that class with at the rate aspect.
So this aspect has certain purpose.
So spring boot.
Get to know that okay, this logging aspect because this is at the right component when you start an
application.
Right.
Spring boot scans.
So when spring Boot find this hey this is this class is annotated with at the right aspect.
Then Spring Boot knows that okay.
What does it contain it.
It contains certain methods which might require interception.
Right.
Which might need to be get executed before certain method or after certain method.
So now here, if you see that the first part is your pointcut.
So this annotation here, if you see this before this method, I have put this at the right before and
there is certain expression.
So this expression this expression.
This expression is known as Pointcut.
What pointcut is it's an expression which tell where an advice should be applied.
Advice is what advice is this method actually?
This method plus.
This.
Before or after.
Okay.
So this pointcut what happen is it matches.
It do some matching logic that okay this class this class and inside this class this method okay.
Some matching happened okay.
For this method I have to do some interception.
Means before this method actually get invoked I have to run this whether before or after.
This will tell whether before I have to run or after I have to run.
Okay.
But how to find out which method we have to run this code, whether before or after it is tailed by
pointcut.
How to identify that particular class or particular method where we have to run this piece of code is
tell by pointcut.
So now let's go through this expression one by one.
There are okay.
So now we are going to this pointcut we are going deep into this Pointcut now.
So Pointcut definition.
Now you already know it's an expression which tell where an advice should be applied.
Okay.
This is what actually is an advice.
What actually the code has to run before the method and after the method.
But this is what Pointcut actually tells which for which method this has to be done.
So type of Pointcut.
So first is execution.
So here if you see that in the execution what it says that matches a particular method in a particular
class.
It matches a particular method in a particular class.
So with this execution here, if you see that we have to give expression like this.
So this expression has certain part.
The first part is your.
Access modifier whether it's public private protected.
What right.
And this is optional.
This is optional means even if you remove it doesn't matter.
It will check for all.
It will check for private public protected all okay.
So this is optional.
And this is your access modifier.
The second part this is your return type method.
Return type.
Okay, so whatever the return type of your method, you will write here.
And this is not like an optional you can skip it.
You have to provide it.
Okay.
And the third part is your the path for your method.
So this is your package com dot concept and coding dot learning Springboot.
Right.
This is your package.
This is the class name.
And inside this class name this is a method.
So the full method the class path has been given com dot dot dot dot method name fetch employee okay.
And this method doesn't have any parameter.
So that's why it is empty.
Otherwise.
Inside this we can provide the parameters whether it takes a string int some object and all.
So but here in our example in this case if you see This fetch employee.
This has no arguments, so that's why I have kept it empty also.
Okay.
So here.
So this one.
You got it right.
Execution.
What execution?
It is always focus on whenever you are using this type of pointcut execution.
It always focus on try to match a particular method in a particular class.
Right.
And you have to give this way.
Okay.
Now there are a wild card which we can use.
So there are two type of wild card whether using star or dot dot.
Okay.
So let's see that if we want to use a wild card how we can do it.
So let's say that we want to use a star.
So star means it matches any single item.
lighter.
Now lets.
So now lets say this is the class.
Now I want to use this wild card.
How to use any wild card like matches any single item.
Now let's say I'm writing an execution means this type of Pointcut means I have to point to a specific
method where this method has to be run right.
So matching this is the matching logic.
So first I use star.
So now here if you see that I have removed this because this is optional.
This is not even required.
If you don't write it it will check for public private protected all type of access modifier.
So I started with this return type.
So return type instead of string.
Now I give asterisk.
So no matter string or int or any object doesn't matter.
So this is one wildcard.
Now I provide the total class for for my method employee.
Then this method name that before uh, the uh.
For this method I have to do some interception.
And this doesn't accept any argument.
So I have kept it empty.
Okay.
So this what would happen is.
So now Spring Boot will match this pointcut expression with this method.
Right.
And it able to identify that okay, for this method I have to run this advice run this method.
Now whether before or after we will come to that later.
But at least now it filter out that okay this is this method is matched with this Pointcut.
Okay.
Now the second matches any method with single parameter string.
So now here, if you see that I am trying to do an execution means again one direct particular method
we have to point out star started with the star space.
So means this is the return type.
Whatever the return type could be string integer doesn't matter.
Com dot concept encoding.
Dot learning spring boot dot employee.
So this is still I have provided a particular class.
Now what is the method dot star.
Now doesn't matter whether fetch employee or you can say that int uh some update employee.
Update employee.
So this star means any method any method name.
Now I haven't provided any specific method name I provided star means any method name return type.
Also, I have used the star so it doesn't matter whether a string or int.
So currently till now matching is happening.
Now in the parameter I have given a string.
So means method should have taken a string.
So let's say one argument is a string val.
So now the matching will not happen for this because okay return type matching because this is a star
wild card.
So this is okay fetch method okay.
Because this is method is a star.
Any method name could be there.
But matching is like the method should have argument one.
One argument should be string.
Does it have any argument?
No.
This method has any argument.
Yes.
So this got matched with this.
This point could get matched to this method.
So now whenever somebody try to invoke this method this will run either before or after.
We will see later One more example of execution which I want to give.
So I'm running an execution now string.
Specifically, now I am giving the return type should be string.
This should be the method specific.
I have provided the exact path to this method and also return type I have given is star.
Star means single should get match, right?
I told you star match any single item.
So even though there.
So this doesn't take any method, any argument, this fetch employee doesn't take any argument.
So it will not match because it is expecting one argument either a string, either it either object
doesn't matter.
But when we have put a star means at least one should be there, so this matching will not happen.
Okay, so now you understand.
Okay, so now you understand this.
Star.
Wild card.
Asterisk.
Wild card.
Now I'll tell you about the second wild card.
Dot.
So it matches zero or more item means zero or more.
So first example, which I am giving you.
What is this?
It matches the fetch employee method that takes zero or more parameter.
So read this.
Execution means I have to provide one specific method.
Matching return type is string.
This is the classpath exactly for the particular method.
So this is my package.
This is my class and this is my method name.
Okay.
So till now I have provided fully.
Now here.
If you see that in the arguments I have put dot, dot means either this fetch employee have zero argument
or more than like more than zero like or more item.
It will get matched.
So now in this case this got matched with that.
Right.
So let me copy it here so that it would be easy.
So now here, if you see that even the fetch employee has zero arguments, it will get match because
dot dot means zero or more.
Now see the second example of this one I am running.
An execution means a specific class method.
I have to provide execution string.
This is a return type.
Com dot concept encoding dot dot.
Now here dot dot means any package any sub package right.
And ultimately this is the method name I have provided.
So now com dot concept encoding dot like whatever the package sub package would be in any package sub
package and whatever the classes it has if any method name is fetch employee within this concept encoding
package and its sub package.
If any method has fetch employee matching should have happened with that.
Okay.
Now there is one more thing I want to show that execution string.
This is a return type.
Com dot concept encoding.
Dot dot means concept encoding.
And this package.
And inside this any other package is required.
So it will look for all this package and all other sub packages.
Right.
All the classes inside that all the classes inside this sub packages also.
And which method I have put a star like doesn't matter.
So all the methods inside the Package and sub packages of this.
This match point card should get match.
Okay.
So execution.
Execution.
Now you know this.
Now let's say second type of point card is within.
Now within.
So what within says that matches all method within any class or package.
How?
Now let's say I want to run all the methods for within a class.
We can do it through execution.
Also, I told you right through execution.
Also we can run this way, but there is a simpler way with the within also.
So here, here if you say within.
So this is another type of point card.
In this within there is nothing like a return type because we are not specifically pointing to a method.
Now we are giving here either the class path or the package path.
Com dot concept and coding.
Dot learning.
Spring boot dot employee.
So I have provided a particular class.
So all the methods within a within this class.
This pointcut will get match right.
If this employee if this employee class has four methods right.
So this Pointcut will match for all four okay.
So no matter if you are calling this method then also this matching will happen.
And whatever the advice we have to run like below this, whatever the method we will write, it will
get run.
Now if you want to run on a package, we can say that within com dot concept and coding learning spring
boot dot dot Right and stress no matter any class now learning spring boot package or below sub packages.
Any class which is present inside this package and sub packages for that.
This pointcut will get match within Pointcut.
There is one Pointcut called at the rate within.
So whenever we use at the rate right.
So at the rate within means here we have to provide an annotation.
We don't have to provide a class path of a particular class.
We have to provide an annotation okay.
Matches any method in a class right.
Which has this annotation.
So within you already know that within works on a class level right.
So when we use at the rate within means any class which this annotation which has this annotation,
this pointcut will match.
Okay.
So here if you see this example, I have written one simple class rest controller where this is one
method which has exposed this API slash fetch employee.
Now this fetch employee is just calling one utility class employee util I have auto added employee helper
method.
Certain helper method.
Now this employee util class I have put at the service.
Okay.
And this is one method employee helper method.
So this will print this.
And after that it will return item fetch.
So very very simple.
This two classes are very very simple.
It's just my business logic I have used.
Now I have put this aspect class where I want to do something before a particular method invoke.
So I have put at the rate within okay.
Within means targeting to a specific class.
But at the rate is like I have to provide the annotation here.
I have put this service annotation path.
Okay.
So now what is Springboot will know that okay.
Any class which has this annotation right.
All its method this match will happen.
I have invoked this API fetch employee.
Now when this API is invoked, what would happen is currently any aspect match.
currently any any pointcut match with this?
No.
So currently at the rate within is any class which has service annotation.
This class employee has service annotation.
No.
So there is no matching happen.
Now it proceed and it calls employee util employee helper method.
Now it is trying to invoke this.
Now Springboot say that okay, this method before I invoke this method, is there anything I have to
do now?
It will see that okay, there is some aspect present at the rate within the class.
Any class which has this annotation at the rate service.
Okay, this class has this annotation okay means this got match up.
This Pointcut will get match up means this method has to be run before or after.
So currently we are telling before.
So before this method execution.
This will run inside before method aspect.
So it will print inside before method aspect.
And after that it will go inside this.
And it print employee helper method call.
Employee helper method call.
And after that it will put item fetch to the UI.
Okay you got at the rate within.
So within is deal with the classes.
All the methods within a classes.
But when we have put at the rate means it has, we have to give annotation all classes which has this
annotations.
Okay.
Now another type of Pointcut is at annotation.
Now this deals with the method matches any method that is annotated with given annotation.
Okay so Here, see this one?
I have written one aspect class put at the right aspect right.
This is also have to use at the rate at the right component because this has to be otherwise Springboot
will not manage it.
So we have to use at the right component also because this is also a bean object is required.
So I am using the Pointcut type is at the annotation.
What does add that annotation is.
So we are using at the right means right.
We have to provide some annotation path.
So what annotation path I have given get mapping this annotation path I have provided.
Okay.
So what annotation is that matches any method that is annotated with given annotation okay.
So now what would happen is I invoke this method when I invoke this method fetch employee spring boot.
Before running this method, it sees that hey any aspect is Practice which is getting match any point
card which is matching it will see that okay, at the rate annotation is there, which says that any
method which has get mapping annotation.
Yes, it has get mapping annotation.
This method has get mapping annotation means this has to be done before or after.
Currently I'm telling it at the rate before.
If I want to run, I can tell at the rate after if I want to run after this method.
So currently I'm telling is at the rate before, so means it will run first inside before method aspect,
and then it will go inside this and return this item fetch.
So you got it at annotation.
Then there is something called arcs matches any method with particular argument.
So now here if you see this is another Pointcut type where this is like a r g s r.
And inside this like you want to give like any method which takes this type of argument a string comma.
And so first is a string, second is int.
So here if you see this r string comma int I have given as a pointcut expression okay.
So at the right aspect is there in this class component.
And this is the method.
Like any method which got match with this, this method has to be run before its execution.
So now what I am doing is here.
I am calling this API.
Now I am calling this API.
So here if you see currently this this got match.
No it has argument string comma and does it taking any argument.
No.
So no matching happened.
So it will go inside.
It will run this the statement employee util employee helper method and it passing two parameters.
So it is trying to invoke this method.
So this method when spring boot try to execute this method it will check.
Hey any Pointcut matches happen.
So it will say that okay there is a Pointcut which says that argument which takes a string comma and
any method which takes the string command.
Yes, this is applicable for this.
It got matched with this point guard means this has to be run and before.
So this will print first inside before method aspect.
Then it will go inside this employer helper method call.
And after that it will return this.
Got it arcs.
Right.
Okay.
So now one question can comes to that.
Okay.
Hey what if instead of string int if we have object how we give.
So we can give like args and give the proper class path of that class till class level like any object
of this class.
Com dot concept encoding dot learning Springboot dot employee.
Right?
So it will match to any method that accept a reference for this class.
And there is something called at the rate args.
Now whenever at the rate comes before this at the rate means we have to provide the path for the annotation.
Okay, so how to read this is matches any method with particular parameter.
And that parameter class is annotated with particular annotation.
Now here when I give talks.
And this is the annotation service.
So what I am looking for is here.
If you see at the rate talks and I have given the path for service annotation.
So what happen is it will look for any method.
Any method.
That accept one.
That accept any argument.
Okay.
And that argument class right has this annotation service because see args is deal with the argument.
We don't have to worry about the method name and all any method.
But the argument which you are passing does that argument has this.
That class has this annotation.
So here the argument is employed.
Now let's say this in.
So this is one method which is ultimately getting invoked let's say.
And this method has argument employed now.
Now this employee Dao class had this annotation at the rate service.
So this got matched up.
Okay.
So args deals with the argument.
And at the rate args says that the argument which you are getting the class type does this has this
annotation.
If yes then only do the matching with this.
So this method has employee Dao.
And this employee Dao has at the service which got matched this with annotation.
So this is a match for this Pointcut.
Okay.
This is the seventh type of Pointcut which we can use.
Matches any method on a particular instance of a class.
Okay so here at the rate aspect.
So this is the class where we are writing all the pointcuts.
So here I am using target.
So target is your one type of pointcut expression Pointcut type.
So target.
Now here what we have to give we have to give a till class level path.
So this is my class.
Now whenever an instance of this class is used to call any method, this will get matched.
So just see this example in this class.
Very very simple class employee Rest controller expose.
This API does this mapping.
Now I am calling this method.
Okay fetch employee.
It is running this employee util dot employee helper method.
So now it will see that hey any pointcut match happen.
So here target means says that in the target.
What is the class I have given employee util whenever this instance of this class.
So this is an instance of this class is used to invoke a particular method for that method.
This got matched up.
So is it clear.
And there is one more.
Uh, the target flavor of this is like we can even provide an interface also, instead of direct class.
Instead of direct class, we can provide an interface.
So now here, if you see that this is the class structure I have created.
Okay.
The controller class.
This controller class has dependent on employee interface.
So I have created one employee interface.
This employee interface has two child temp employee Pirma employee permanent employee.
So this has two type of employees okay.
So you know already that we have to use qualifiers properly.
Because if you have to use we have to tell Which dependency we it has to be put inside this employee
object.
Okay.
And I am using that employee object by calling the method.
If you see this aspect, I am writing a point guard for the type target.
And what I have given.
Till interface level.
I have given this interface name.
So what this interface name is that any child classes for this interface.
Like if it is an instance of temp employee or if it is an instance of permanent employee, doesn't matter
because this is an interface I have given, right?
So no matter whatever the child instance it has, this is applicable.
So now here, if you see that I am calling fetch employee method employee on a temporary employee object
because I have put a qualifier temp employee.
So it's I'm creating an object of this.
So even though you are creating an object of this temporary employee, this this pointcut will get matched
because this is an interface.
So for all its child instances also this is valid.
So it will run this before calling this method.
So I'm at use at the right before.
So means it will run first this inside before method.
And then it will go inside.
Fetch employee method of a temporary.
Okay.
So only point to say is that even if you use interface instead of direct class.
Now with interface, no matter how many child classes are there of this interface for that instance
of those child classes this will get true.
This will get match.
Okay.
Now we can also one more thing is we can also combine two pointcut.
cut.
So we have seen a multiple point cut right.
Which one execution within at the rate within arcs at the rate arcs target and at the rate annotation.
Right.
So we have seen multiple annotation multiple point cuts.
We can combine them.
Also we can use together also using and and or Boolean and Boolean all.
So here if you see that this is one example which I am giving.
I am writing one aspect class.
Put at the rate aspect okay, this is the method, but this is my pointcut expression.
So first is execution.
Execution means pointing to a particular method.
Return type is anything.
This is the package, right?
So this is my class dot any method.
In this class, any method, any return type and it do not accept any argument.
Okay, but now here if you see that I have combined it with another pointcut, now I am adding and n
means it's an end.
Both should get true.
Then only this will get match up and this will should run at the rate within within this deal with till
class level.
So I have provided.
Ah, but I have used at the rate so means annotation path.
I have to given so annotation path I have given this Rest controller.
So any class which has this Rest controller annotation okay.
So this is one.
And this is like similarly I have written for or.
Now let's see that if I call this method, if I call this what would happen.
So now this you have invoked this now Spring Boot will say that, hey, this method got this method
got matched with any aspect.
So first execution let's see this first any return type okay.
Good.
Com dot concept encoding dot learning spring boot dot employee controller.
Yes.
This is within this package.
And the class name any method name okay.
And this method doesn't accept any argument.
Yes this got match.
So this is true.
This got matched now.
And.
Any class which should have this Rest controller.
Yes this class has Rest controller.
So this both get true means this is got matched with for this method.
And this should run.
And this should run either before or after I have put it before.
So it will run inside before end.
Method aspect.
Inside before end.
Method.
Accept okay.
so this is run and there is another.
So it will try to match it with this also star.
So this got match up exactly same.
So this is true.
Or we should have at the rate component within means this class has at the rate component.
No this doesn't has at the rate component.
Uh so this will get false.
But since this is or anyone should get true.
So this is also true.
So this is this method also has to be run but it before right.
So this will also get print inside before or method.
So now after this it will return item fetch.
There is one uh one more thing called named Pointcut.
So in the name point part, what we have seen this before is we have used at the rate before, and here
we are used to give the Pointcut expression so we can name that expression.
So here this is the way of giving.
So I'm using at the rate point card and give the expression.
So we are telling the spring boot that this is one point cut.
Okay.
Just provide a method name which should be empty.
We don't have to write anything inside it.
The purpose of this is that okay, we are just giving the name of this point.
Cut to this one, this method name.
Now this method name.
Custom point.
Custom point cut name is now is the name for this expression okay.
So now instead of using this full expression again and again at multiple places, let's say you can
just use custom point cut name like this.
So this is how I used it at the rate before.
Now here if you see I have given custom point cut name this method.
Now it will automatically use change it with this expression complete, the bigger part is completed.
Pointcut.
Now the advice I think while we were covering the Pointcut you already know this.
It's an action which is taken either before or after or around the method execution.
So we have seen this example right?
We have currently learning this Pointcut expression.
Now the Pointcut we are done.
Now the something is advice.
So this yellow part yellow part is known as advice.
So once this pointcut got matched with any particular method after that this has to be run.
This is known as advice.
This advice has to be run either before, after or around.
Before is we have already seen after is self explanatory that okay, after that method invocation you
have to run this advice.
But what is around?
Around, as the name says, that it surrounds the method execution before and after both.
And it's very little very minor.
Different from the before and after.
So now let's check this.
This is the pointcut expression I have given.
I think now you can read this expression.
This is an execution which has to match with a particular method return type.
This is still class level path and any method.
Okay.
So in the employee util any method, any return type which doesn't take any argument, this should get
matched up.
Okay.
So say that this employee util class any any method because this is a star any return type and which
doesn't take any argument.
So this should get matched with this expression.
Now once this is matched mass.
This advice has to be run before, after or around.
I have till around.
Around means it is possible that we can run something before and after.
Now see till now what we are using is at the rate before or at the rate after there.
What we have to do is we have to just write what we have to.
Run before or after.
Okay.
So now in the at the rate before when we use at the rate before, what generally happen is it will simply
execute this.
And internally.
Internally it will call the method invoke the method if you are using at the rate after, it will internally
first call the method and then execute this advice.
But in case of at the rate around, we have to call the method.
So in the around we have to use this joint point.
Preceding joint point right.
So here in this case do whatever you have to do before.
The method use this joint point and call proceed method.
You have to call proceed method which will actually invoke your method.
And then you can do certain tasks after it.
So before then you invoke the actual method and do some after work.
So as the around says that it surrounds the method execution before and after.
If you need to perform any task, you can do it.
Then actually you have to invoke this method like this, right?
It will take care of calling your method.
And if you have to do after tasks, you can do this here.
So at the rate around is also very powerful advice which we can use.
Now you can ask me, right.
Hey Sharon, how this at the rate proceed is actually calling the method.
I will tell you how internally it invokes also.
But first thing is that where we are is understanding what around us.
Okay, joint point is nothing but the point where we are actually invoking the method, your actual
method that generally in spring, spring boot AOP, we call joint point.
Joint point, it's generally considered a point where actual method invocation happen.
That's it.
So now we have seen lot of information.
Now one thing might be bugging you as of today.
By now few question we all should have how this interception works I, I understood what is point guard?
What is advice rite?
Different types of point guard.
I know different type of advice.
Before, after around I know I got it.
Uh, the matching happen with the point guard.
And, uh, if the matching happen before that actual method, this advice will run.
So either before this advice will run in that method or after method, this advice will run or around
it.
But how this how this linking interception is working.
And what if you have thousands of point cut?
What if you have thousands of point cut?
So whenever I am particularly invoking a method, I am particularly invoking a method.
So if I have thousands of point cut, it is doing matching with all the point cards one by one by one.
Will it not causing a problem and latency right.
So this question might be bugging you very much.
How this becomes so powerful tool.
If this is, like, too much complicated, right?
So now let's understand how AOP internally works.
I'll try to explain it in very simple manner.
This is a very huge internally code base.
But I will explain you in very simple method which will help you to link everything.
Okay.
So be with me.
So first when an application startup happen okay I will also show you from the code also.
But first let's understand theoretically what is the step.
And then we'll show from the code.
When you start an application you know that spring boot looks for the beans.
So here in the first step it looks for at the right aspect annotation classes.
So this is the first.
Now once the it found this classes.
Now it knows that it this class contain Pointcut expression.
So the second step what does it do?
Is it parse the Pointcut expression parse means it simplifies those expression, save it in a particular
data structure so that it would be easy to do a matching.
It will do a parse the pointcut expression and stored in an efficient data structure or cache.
After parsing.
The third step is.
It look for at the rate component, at the rate service, at the rate controller, etc..
Annotation classes.
Now at this point, once it is started looking for at the rate component at the rate service, all this
type of another beans it check if it is eligible for interception or not based on the pointcut expression.
Need not need not to be an exact method level, but at least it knows that yes, this class is valid
for interception, right?
So for each class it check it is eligible for interception or not based on the Pointcut expression.
And if yes, it creates a proxy out of it, right?
If yes, it create a proxy class either using JDK dynamic proxy or lib code generation library proxy.
Right.
So if you are writing this class employee util this is your class.
It has one method called let's say.
Which does something right.
And during aspect and pointcut it matches that.
And during.
Pointcut it fetches it.
It checks that it is eligible for interception.
Right.
If you have used, uh, dot dot stress.
Now, any class inside a package sub package.
So definitely this will come into the.
That, uh, interception.
Right.
Because.
Any class inside this let's say concept encoding package and sub packages and this is inside that package
only.
So definitely it comes into this radar.
So what it will do is it will create a proxy of it either using JDK dynamic proxy or CGI lib proxy.
So now there is one employee util sum at the rate sum 54321.
Some random proxy classes made right.
And what it does it, it will create a child class of it.
Now this becomes your parent and this will create one child class okay.
And it will override this method at the rate public void fetch, and it will generate some.
So glib and dynamic is like it will generate some code.
Now it will generate some code which will call certain spring framework.
So don't worry about this.
What what code is there.
But I'll tell you that understand this five step first.
First is look for at the aspect classes.
Parse the pointcut expression.
Store it in an efficient manner.
Now look for all the other annotation classes.
Now check if those classes are eligible for interception based on the Pointcut expression.
If yes, then create a proxy of those classes using this tool.
You might be here when to use JDK Dynamic Proxy and when to use Glib.
So generally is like if your if your if your class is already a child of interface let's say employee
Util.
Implement this interface.
Let's say employee implements employee means there is.
This class is already a child of any interface.
Then JDK dynamic proxy is used.
Okay, if this class is not a child of any any interface, then CG live is used.
Because this CG live has the capability to create a subclass of a particular class.
JDK dynamic proxy just can create a new class and use just implement interface.
So it's automatically a child of this one.
But CG lib is like when your class is not a child of any class, then CG is used.
It can create a subclass.
Okay, now let's see that Okay.
First, I am starting the application.
I am starting the application now sharing the code.
So here, if you see that I have created one aspect, some logging aspect and I have one before advice
and after advice.
And this is the pointcut expression which I have given right.
Very very simple Pointcut expression I have given execution which matches with employee util class.
Any method, any return type, right?
The same.
So in the before method I am just printing inside before method aspect and after method I am printing
inside after method aspect.
So this is very simple aspect I have created.
Now here if you see that I am starting the application now.
So now I am starting the application now.
Here.
Now.
Now here.
If you see the first control goes to where the first control goes to Pointcut parser.
So what this actually does is that it will parse your expression.
Okay.
So this is the first parse the Pointcut expression.
It will goes to your Pointcut parser class.
And here if you see all your Pointcut expression it will resolve it into some simpler, understandable
and efficient data structure.
After parsing, the control goes to to wrap if necessary.
So here in this, say.
Now the second is this one.
The second control goes to in this class auto proxy creator wrap if necessary.
So here in this what happens is.
It will check.
It will.
Now it is going through all the beans at the rate component.
At the rate service, at the rate rest controller.
Now it is checking.
Hey does it required interception?
If yes then it is creating a proxy of it.
It is creating a proxy of it.
Right.
If it if this class required if this bin required interception it creates a proxy of it.
Now if you go now I am proceeding further now proxy which creates stood either JDK dynamic or lib.
So this is the third part right.
So this one I haven't taken a screenshot but the proxy here you can see in the code itself either here
if you see that JDK dynamic AOP proxy or if in target class dot it is interface, there is no interface
at all.
It goes for Clib AOP proxy.
Okay, so till now what we have done is.
And after this I am running again.
So currently my class employee util doesn't have any interface.
So it goes for Clib.
And here if you see that application startup happens successfully okay.
So till now before application startup it's clear what it is doing.
It pass the pointer.
Now after that when it is creating the bean during application startup for each class, if it required
interception, it create a proxy.
So which proxy?
Either JDK proxy or uses Clib based proxy, but it uses any one of proxy and create a proxy class.
Now for at this point of time there is something called employee util at the rate some random number.
Now this is my proxy class, which is now a child of employee util and it has overridden that method.
Whatever the method, it had overrided it, which required interception and now it has written some
code over there.
Generate code.
Now I am invoking the request which need advice to be run.
Now I am invoking this API.
So controller.
Now I am invoking this method at this point.
Now what will happen.
So here if you see.
Now let's see I am invoking a method.
So now here I am hitting okay.
So now what would happen here at this time.
We'll see that it it would have come here and then call employee util dot fetch employee method.
Now if I go inside side.
Now it will check.
At the point of application startup for this employee util because this is applicable for interception.
There is one proxy class created for this employee util proxy.
Right.
So internally that proxy class might have invoked not this class invoked.
That proxy class got invoked because here if you see that my aspect it matches, it matches with this
employee util right.
It matches with this.
So this class required interception.
And during application startup employee util at the rate something a proxy class have created.
So that proxy class have created.
We can't put debugger point in that proxy class because that is dynamically on the fly.
That proxy class is created, and in that proxy class what it does it it invoke your Intercept method
inside Clib EOP proxy.
So here if you see inside Clib, it will invoke this intercept method.
Why Clib?
Because employee util is not a child class of any.
So that's why Clib proxy have used at this point of time.
At this point of time, this.
So this proxy might have been used.
So that's why that employee util at the rate some proxy class have got invoked and it has called this
intercept method.
Now see this what this intercept method is doing.
There you will see that it is creating a chain of advice right.
So now let's say that this method which we have to invoke there are let's say five pointcut which are
matched.
So there is a list of pointcuts or advice now which has to be run for this.
Some could be before, some could be after, or some could be around, which has to be run.
But this five got matched with that particular method.
Okay, so now I have created a chain, not I.
The JDK library I have has created a chain.
Now what would happen is that it is calling dot proceed method.
So this proceed method goes to this reflection method.
Invocation.
This proceed.
So now here if you see that it has counter.
So now let's say it has to run five advice right.
So it will go 54321.
And after all the advice method invocation has happened.
Okay.
But there could be some before.
There could be some after.
So how it is handling this I will tell you.
So currently index is, uh, zero.
No, index is not zero.
What happen is it will go inside this else part.
Okay.
So now let's say we have two advice, right?
I showed you we have before and after here in the code I have showed you the, uh, aspect which I have
written.
One is before and one is after, which matches this.
Okay.
So in the chain I have two counter is two.
Right.
So now so starting with I think it's starting with plus plus.
So it is starting with zero one right.
Then it is matching if the counter reaches to the end.
So first let's say before is coming.
So now what before is coming.
What it is done is it is invoking.
So for before there is a it will invoke a method.
So first.
So first call When it is calling interceptor method interceptor.
Right.
So before it will call method before advice interceptor.
So this invoke will get invoke.
And here it will say that it will run the advice first.
Advice dot before it is running the advice first okay.
So this advice is running before so it will print inside before method expect now.
So this has printed inside before method except at this point.
At this point now again it called dot proceed am I dot proceed method invocation dot proceed.
So it goes back to this method.
Now again the counter has already reached to the plus plus so it become one.
Now again it hasn't reached to the end.
So what happen is it goes to the else part.
Now again this again calls invoke.
But now for the after one it will call third this interceptor aspect J after advice, because now the
advice is after.
So it will call this interceptor call this invoke method.
Now after is like after the method advice should run.
So that's why here it say that it calls the back.
So now it is doing kind of a recursion.
If you know recursion you can easily understand this.
It calls the proceed again.
Hey, you proceed further and once that proceed happen, then come back and run this advice after.
Okay.
So now it goes up.
Proceed.
Fourth, it again goes to this proceed now control plus plus it already reached two.
So now this become equals.
Now here if you see that it is invoking the join point I already told that joint point is a point where
the actual method invocation happens.
Now it is actually invoking the method.
So now it is invoking.
So currently this after advice it is will run.
Currently it is in this part.
So currently this is running.
And when this is running invoke joint point.
So fifth step this method invocation will happen.
So this method invocation actually happens means.
This employee util this will print fetching.
Employee details will get printed.
So it will print.
Fetching employee details.
So this fifth is also completed when this is completed and it returns.
So it returns from where it comes.
So it comes from this.
So after that it will run.
So this will return.
Now invoke advice after one.
So now after advice will run right.
So this is your actually the sixth after advice.
So after advice will run means this is the after inside after method aspect.
Inside after method aspect.
So this will get printed like this.
So this is your actual method which you wanted.
But see before and after advice run and how I told you right.
So here if you see that currently if I debug it.
So currently it is running inside reflective method invocation.
So first it is running before.
So it will come under your.
Method before advice interceptor.
So once it has printed the advice by now and then it call proceed.
Then again, this method has been invoked.
Now it will go to, uh after.
Now in the after, it will first call.
Proceed.
And then it comes to this method.
So it will again goes to that method.
Now it will now it will call this actual method.
Now it will call the actual method here.
Now it says that uh, actual method has been invoked inside the employee util.
Now after actual method it will go again.
Back to the advice.
Uh, finally part where the advice will run and finally it will print.
If you see the console before employee and after.
If any doubt, we can discuss further and, uh, I hope you will like it.
Please do share it with your friends who really confuse with the proxy and the AOP part.
Thank you, thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot @Transactional Annotation - Part1 ---

Is welcome to concept encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in Spring Boot we are going to start at the transaction annotation.
But before that I would highly recommend you to watch these two videos.
The one is the concurrency control which I have shared in the playlist.
And another is the Spring Boot AOP, which we have just recently covered in the Spring Boot playlist.
Okay, so if you already know about these two concepts, then we are good to go and let's start it.
So one thing before we start we have to understand about critical section.
So it's a very simple critical section definition.
So it's a code segment where shared resources are being accessed and modified okay.
So now let's say that this is my shared resource.
You so a cab okay.
So in DB let's say that this car has ID 1001 and currently status is available.
Now there is a code segment where we are accessing this shared resource and also trying to update it.
Okay.
So that's why it's known as critical section.
So now what happens is when multiple requests try to access this critical section data inconsistency
inconsistency can happen.
Now let's say that four people are trying to book a cab parallel.
So now let's say that four requests comes here in the critical section in parallel.
So all will read car with 1001.
Yes, they will all read successfully if status is available.
Yes.
Current status is available.
Updated to book for all four.
They will write.
Your car is booked.
If critical section is not handled properly right.
Then during multiple requests data inconsistency can happen.
So what is the solution?
The solution is usage of transaction.
The transaction helps to achieve asset property we like during first year or second year.
We all have studied asset property in the DB right.
So we just to remind you that the first A in the asset is atomicity.
Atomicity says that in a transaction, if any operation fails, the entire transaction will get rollback.
What does it mean quickly?
Let's say that in a DB A has ₹10, B has ₹20.
Now this is your transaction in transaction.
Let's say you want to debit a ₹5.
You want to credit B ₹5.
This is a particular, let's say transaction one.
Okay.
So now what?
Atomicity says that first these are operation.
Operation one.
Operation two.
Okay.
So let's say the first operation executed, you debited a.
So now it would be like ₹5.
Now during credit some failure happened and this operation got failed.
The credit operation got failed.
So as per the atomicity, if any operation fails, the entire transaction will get rollback.
So entire transaction, whatever the operations are there previous operation will get rollback.
So means this debit operation which got success will also get rollback.
So this instead of ₹5 it will again goes back to ₹10.
Okay.
So that's what actually.
Lead to consistency which says that before and after the transaction our DB should be consistent only.
So my DB was inconsistent.
State ₹10 and ₹20.
Right?
A and B after running the transaction.
Right.
Whether it's a successful or failure, doesn't matter, right?
If it is a success, my DB state would be a would be, let's say ₹5 and B would be ₹25.
So this state of a DB is also consistent if there is a failure.
So again my DB state would be consistent.
Okay.
So this property consistency says that no matter after and before the transaction my DB should be consistent
only there should not be any inconsistency like okay the debit got successfully happen ₹5 but credit
doesn't happen.
So credit is still ₹20.
That is inconsistent state okay.
So both are linked to each other.
Then there is a something called isolation.
Isolation says that even if multiple transactions are running in parallel, they do not interfere with
each other.
So this is just one operation, right?
You need to debit a ₹5 credit B ₹5.
This is just a one transaction.
There could be, let's say multiple transaction running in parallel.
There could be another transaction like debit A ₹2, credit B ₹2.
There could be another transaction credit a debit b something.
Something x y something.
So what I'm trying to say is that multiple transaction can run at the same time, but they will feel
like they are running individually, independently, right?
In an isolation environment, like nobody is interfering to each other.
Okay.
So now let's say that everybody wants to update a transaction one, transaction two, transaction three.
And if there are any more, all wants to update a so transaction makes sure that one only one of them
will take up lock on this and one of them only will update it.
Okay.
And once the lock is free then only it will be given to another transaction and then it will work.
So internally transaction make a proper sequence.
Even though from the outside world we all see that all transactions are running in parallel.
But it's not right internally.
Transactional.
Make use of locking and make sure that the operations are in proper sequence manner.
So each transaction feels that they are running in isolation and no no multiple transaction interfere
with each other.
And the last one is durability, which says that once your transaction, let's say this transaction
done its operation and it done commit.
Now once the commit is happened.
Right.
This data is persisted means now, even if your system crash, this data should not get lost.
Okay, so that's what durability says.
That and all this atomicity, consistency, isolation and durability guarantee is provided by transaction.
And that's why it is very, very popular into during financial kind of applications, all financial
applications mostly use uh which DB which have which provide this asset property.
Okay.
So generally this is like you begin a transaction, then you have your operations.
Then if all operations got success you do commit means you persisted into the DB.
Else if any failure your rollback will happen right.
Rollback of all transactions and you end the transaction.
So you have to do this.
You have to do this And now understand that in your application, let's say you have 100 methods, you
have 100 methods, or I would say that 1000 methods.
So let's say that you have 1000 methods which where it is actually touching the DB.
Okay.
So let's say that this is update update user.
So it is actually touching the DB write update bulk user.
This is also actually updating the DB update user by id something.
This is by email ID something different different flavors right.
So all these are actually internally touching the DB.
So you have to use this transaction for each.
Now here if you see that your actual business logic is this only which one is your actual business logic.
Actually this debit from a credit to be.
But here if you see that the lot of things you have to do just for the transactional just to achieve
the asset property begin if all success commit else rollback and transaction.
But if you focus this read only, this is actually your business logic.
Rest is all the verbose, right?
This is.
And if you see that there's lot of duplicate, you have to do, you have to do in this method, this
method, this method, this is just one class.
If there are hundreds of class multiple methods in all methods you have to put begin transaction and
transaction.
If all success commit, else rollback and then you have to put your operation.
So this can be simplified through at the rate transactional annotation in spring boot.
Right.
So in spring boot we can achieve this through this annotation.
So if you want to use this annotation you have to add certain dependency.
So this two dependency you have to add the first dependency is like dependent upon your which DB you
are using.
So let's say if you are using relational db then data JPA works fine right?
From this data JPA you can you can get at the rate transactional annotation, right?
If you are not using relational DB, you are using NoSQL because there are many NoSQL DB which also
provide transactional support.
So this dependency will get changed depend upon the DB which you are using.
Okay.
Because you need at the rate transactional annotation, but it is coming from which dependency depend
upon the DB.
And now since DB got involved you have to use a particular driver also database driver also.
So this is the second dependency you have to add.
So in the form you also have to add database driver.
Right.
And in application dot property you have to provide it username and password also.
So this database driver I haven't uh explaining you here.
What is the dependency and what things you have to put in application dot property.
Because in the next topic after at the rate transaction we will cover this in depth.
For now, like whatever the DB you are using for learning.
Right.
Uh, you can just check what is the database driver dependency in spring boot documentation.
You will get that.
Add this into the Pom.xml right.
So that will works out.
But this two dependency you have to add.
And also this is optional right.
At the rate enable transaction management in your spring boot application class main where you are actually
the main method is there.
This is optional because even if you don't write, I told you that Spring Boot automatically configures
so many things for us, so it will add it for us even if you don't write it.
But just for mentioning that this is also required.
Let's say that somehow spring do not add it.
Let's see what would happen then in whatever method you have put at the rate transactional annotation,
right?
That will not be read.
So it's like we have to enable the transaction management actually.
Right.
So with that, once this available is spring boot scan for and look for at the transactional specifically.
But generally it's not added it's automatically added by spring boot.
Just a heads up okay.
Now at the transactional property can be applied at class level and at method level.
If you applied at the class level then it will automatically get applied to all the public methods,
but not at the private method.
Okay, and if you are using at the method level, it will get applied to only particular method only.
So now you are using transaction.
So only update car.
Now all this is now your critical section.
Kind of.
So all this code inside this is now your critical section right.
And it would get handled through like begin transaction.
Right.
All your business logic.
Right.
And if any failure inside this operation rollback will happen.
And after all successful commit will happen right.
This will but not for this because this is method level.
Okay.
So now transaction management in spring boot uses AOP.
That's why I told you that AOP is the first prerequisite, which you should know Because here you have
to know about pointcut and advice, which we have explained in AOP.
Otherwise, you will not understand how transaction management actually works internally.
So what happened is internally transaction management, this annotation right at the rate transactional.
Uses AOP.
I told you the use of AOP, that AOP told us that hey you focus on your business logic, right?
And all the verbose like duplicate code.
I can take care of it.
And now I already told you that here this is all duplicate.
You have to write in each and every method which you which is like duplicate, right?
And only this is your business logic.
You have to concentrate only this debit from A and credit to B.
This all verbose is not actually your problem.
So that's where AOP comes into the picture.
So All this.
Now we are using at the rate transaction only.
But where is actually begin transaction.
All success.
Then do commit.
Else any failure do rollback and transaction.
Where.
All this where where are all this code.
It is present inside a particular aspect.
Okay I will tell you how how it done where it is present.
But this verbose code is present there and it has a placeholder join point.
You already know that from the previous right in the join point it invokes your method.
Okay, so this is actually your business logic.
So you focus on this method right.
Adding all these things AOP will take care of it just by this annotation okay.
So internally AOP are internally at the transactional.
What I told you, right?
It uses AOP.
AOP has all.
AOP has Pointcut expression.
Pointcut expression and advice and advice.
Okay, so the Pointcut expression which it might be using is like this.
At the rate within and the path of this annotation transactional.
So all the package Subpackage right.
It will look for all the classes and inside all the classes, all the method which has this annotation,
if any method it found that it has at transactional annotation the match will happen, the Pointcut
expression match will happen.
And when the Pointcut expression match will happen, you know that what generally happen is advice is
run okay, the advice is run.
And what is the advice here?
Now once the pointcut expression matches in at the transactional, It runs an around type advice.
So there are three type of advice I told you after, before and around.
So the this around type is generally used for transactional right.
And where is this advice method which is executed.
It is present inside the transactional interceptor class.
And this is the your method which is act as an advice.
Okay.
So now here if you see I am showing you the code, I have written a very very simple controller class.
Okay.
This controller class I have given a name user controller.
Right.
And the API is slash API slash update user okay.
So slash API and I have created a method called update user.
And this is the get get mapping generally should be post mapping because I'm trying to update.
Okay.
This is just an example.
You can change it.
So this is the API I wanted to expose slash update user okay.
Inside this I am calling this dependency.
I have put an auto wire on user.
So this so user dot update user.
Now here if you see that in the update user method I have used at the rate transactional annotation
okay.
So now at transactional proper annotation brings me all the capability of asset right.
So now what how this actually works.
Where is begin and all these things.
So you know that first point when you start an application the Pointcut expression will match the Pointcut
expression.
Let's say that this is the Pointcut expression.
Okay.
So using this Pointcut expression it is able to see that yes, this is a match.
A method has this annotation.
That's what we are looking for.
Now what advice has to run.
Okay.
So which is the advice.
So inside a transactional interceptor class there is this method invoke within transaction.
This is nothing but an advice right.
So this will get invoked.
So now here if you see that in this advice method you will see that first it will create a transaction
okay.
Then it will invoke your method right.
So your transaction is started like this.
Begin transaction.
Transaction is started.
Then you can perform your operation.
This is the place it invokes your method.
So this method will get invoked.
Now you perform your update query.
Now, if any exception comes, if any exception comes.
What it will do is it will catch it and it will inside this it will roll back.
If you go inside this complete transaction after throwing, you will see that it will it will be doing
rollback.
But if there is no exception everything is success.
It should do commit.
So all success it is doing commit transaction.
Now no matter if you have if you have hundreds of classes like this user, there is another table.
Let's say employee.
There is another table.
Let's say like order another class.
You have so many classes and each class has multiple methods.
1010 methods which is querying the DB, updating the DB right.
Modifying the DB.
So you have you don't have to write all this in each and every method.
You will just use at the rate transactional.
Now here, if you see that this code is used only at once, right.
You don't have to duplicate it.
And this is not even part of your code.
This is coming from Spring Boot framework itself.
So this is not so.
You are just concentrating on your method.
You are just method got invoked here.
You are just concentrating on your business logic.
Okay.
So let's let me tell you this.
Like so the same thing I have this controller class okay.
One simple update method.
You can change it to post mapping okay.
Update user.
It's calling an update user method.
And inside this update user method this is again at the rate component uh managed by Spring Boot.
But I have put at the rate transaction here.
So currently I'm not throwing any exception here.
Let's say everything got success.
Now let's say that I am starting my application Okay, so I have started my application.
Okay, now let's run this.
So I am hitting this API update user slash API slash update user.
So now when I hit this now here if you see the first control goes to into this method invoke within
transaction which is there in transaction aspect support.
If you see that the transaction interceptor class right, it extends from transaction aspect support
itself.
So it's a parent class of transaction interceptor generally.
So this transaction aspect support is nothing but a parent class of transaction interceptor.
So here invoke within transaction get invoked.
Now currently what it is doing is it is creating a transaction.
After that it will proceed over.
It will call our method.
Now here if you see our method call.
So what now you can run your operation.
Whatever the operation you have to run update DB whatever.
Now, what would happen is once the operations are performed, if everything is success, it will try
to commit.
So commit successful.
Now let's say that instead of all success, I am throwing an exception.
New runtime exception.
I'm throwing some runtime exception.
Now let's start an application again.
Okay, so now I am hitting the API again.
So first it will create a transaction.
Once the transaction is begin transaction happen it will try to invoke our method.
Now our method is throwing an exception.
So it has been catch.
And if you go inside this what it is doing is it is doing rollback.
Okay.
So actually it does rollback.
So got it.
Now internally just by putting at the rate transactional everything magically works out.
So there is nothing magic.
Everything code is there.
But only thing is, it is hidden from us.
Spring boot is taking care of it, right?
But internally we are still doing the same thing.
So now you know how the transaction works.
Now we have to understand all these things much better way.
What is transaction context?
Different types of transaction manager.
Programmatic and declarative.
The propagation.
Right.
Very important.
So there are different type of propagation isolation level.
Configure transaction timeout.
What is read only transaction and many more.
So we will go in this depth in next part of this video.
I'll see you in the next part of this video.
And there we will cover all the remaining part of the transaction annotation.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- @Transactional Part-2 | Declarative, Programmatic Approach & Propagation Types ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept Encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the part two of Transaction management in the Spring Boot we are going to see a lot about
transaction manager and different ways you can create a transaction like declarative and programmatic.
Right.
So till now in the part one you have already seen when we use at the transaction, at the transaction
annotation, what happened in the back.
Right.
How the framework actually invoke an interceptor and what that interceptor actually does.
Okay.
So we actually pretty much now familiar with at the transactional, its purpose.
Now let's go a little bit more deep okay.
So I want to explain you first the hierarchy of transaction manager okay.
So now here in the hierarchy of transaction manager this is the first the top layer interface.
That is transaction manager Okay.
So this is generally an empty interface.
There is nothing inside it.
So this is the second which is very important interface which we have is platform transaction manager.
Right.
This is again an interface which has this three methods get transaction commit and rollback.
Right now if you just go a little bit up right.
And if you see the interceptor what interceptor does is first create transaction internally.
It might be doing get transaction only okay.
Then it do complete inside this complete this is under catch right.
So this is a rollback flow.
So it might be calling its this rollback method.
And after everything successful when it try to commit it actually internally invoking commit method.
So this is actually the interface which has this three methods Thirds.
Now based upon what type of, uh, your like whether you are using JPA, whether you are using JDBC
or let's say if you are using hibernate.
So there would be different implementation of this, but it enforce all the transaction manager that
this three methods you have to implement it okay.
So all these three methods are present here.
But still it's an interface.
Somebody has to implement it and provide the implementation.
So let's see that.
What is that.
The third part.
The third one is Abstract platform manager.
Right.
So it provide the default implementation of this.
All these three methods.
Right.
So mostly uh there are different managers right.
Data source manager hibernate JPA, JTA right.
And JDBC.
So mostly Firstly, their logics of are this get transaction, commit rollback is same.
So this parent class, this abstract class parent class has provided some default implementation.
And this concrete classes anything specific they have to override it.
They are overriding it in their respective classes right.
So this is the third class abstract platform transaction manager which is an abstract class okay.
Which is a child of platform transaction manager.
And it provide an implementation for all these three methods.
Now at the fourth layer, what we have is different type of transaction managers.
As I already told you, we can have many right JDBC you know right.
With JDBC you can talk with relational database but you have to write a queries insert query.
You have to manually write the query.
Similarly JPA Java persistence API.
So with this one, what you can have is you can create entity which can map with the table.
Right.
And most of the Crud operation, you don't even have to write a query itself.
You don't have to write insert.
You don't have to write select.
So some are some things got simplified with the JPA.
Then again hibernate is also a type of JPA, but it's totally different framework.
So hibernate is also one of the transaction manager okay.
And then there is something called JTA which is Java transaction API which is specifically used in the
distributed transaction.
So you remember we have something called two phase commit right.
So this Java transaction API, JTA is getting involved when we have to manage distributed transaction.
But if in a local transaction if you are managing you can pick anything right JDBC hibernate JPA But
again, currently I am.
All it depends upon which database you are using.
If you are using relational database this works fine.
You can talk with relational database with anything JDBC data source hibernate JPA right?
But let's say if you are dealing with NoSQL then you have to change your library at the initial itself.
I told you, right.
Uh, once you change the library, you will get more transaction managers, which can take care which
can talk to NoSQL database.
Okay.
But the underlying concept would be same, right?
These transaction managers helps you to talk to a database and helps to manage the transaction.
Right.
Okay.
Now this things is clear that what is the hierarchy of transaction manager okay.
So now we'll see the type of transaction management.
So there are two types declarative and programmatic.
Declarative.
We have already seen where we are using annotation.
So when we are using ad rate transactional means it's a declarative approach we are using.
So transaction management through annotation.
When we use declarative approach Springboot hides lot of things from us, right?
So based on the underlying data source, whether you are using a relational database or non-relational
database, right.
Springboot will automatically choose a appropriate transaction manager for us, right?
In most of the cases, you will see that Springboot will choose JPA Transaction Manager.
So many things got hidden from us when we just use at the transaction.
Okay, so here if you can see.
now here, you can ask right here if I have to use, if I have to use at the rate transactional.
But I have to tell Spring Boot which transaction manager has to be chosen.
Right.
I don't want to work with JPA.
I have to specifically use JDBC Transaction manager where I have to right specifically insert query,
right specific Select query.
Or let's say that you are working with hibernate.
You have to tell Spring Boot that hey, choose hibernate.
Don't by default pick JPA.
So now you have to tell Spring Boot which one to choose how you will tell.
Then here Appconfig will come into the picture you already know in the previous.
If you are following the series that Appconfig class you can create with annotation at the rate configuration
where we can create a bean.
Okay, so there we can create a bean of platform transaction manager.
Which one?
This one.
Because this is a parent interface.
Now you can create an object of anyone, right.
So now let's say that if you have to tell a spring boot that, hey, you have to work with data source
transaction manager.
You just create a new data source transaction manager like this.
This is we will see into the next topic where we have to connect to a database.
Right.
Data source.
So we have to provide username password link URL.
So that is just the way of connection to a DB.
We have to get access right.
So but the main part which I want to tell you that if you don't want a spring to automatically choose
which transaction manager you have to work with, you can specifically tell by creating a bean of a
platform transaction manager and create an object of whatever you have to work with.
Whatever you are building a project that's a Hibernate.
You can create Hibernate transaction manager.
Now when you will run right and you will put at the transactional, you can provide a transaction manager
like this.
Now what would happen is spring boot will when it see at transactional.
And the value is like transaction manager equals to this.
So what will do is spring boot will try to find a bean with name user transaction manager.
So this is the name by default when you create a bean.
And if you don't provide a name here by default this method name would be considered as a name.
If you want some specific name, you can I think provide name equals to something here.
And that name you can give here.
But since I haven't given any name here in the bean, so the method name would be considered as a name.
Okay.
So this is one declarative way of using the transaction.
There is another way called programmatic okay.
Programmatic means as the name says, you have to program, right.
You have to write the transaction management logic in your code manually.
So transaction management through code it is flexible but difficult to maintain.
Definitely difficult to maintain because if at 100 places you are you have to use transaction.
So you have to write your own code.
But why.
It's flexible where exactly you might need it.
So let's consider this use case where this programmatic might help you.
So now let's say I have this method update user in this this three operation happening.
First is update db.
So let's say some initial Set of DB operation, and after once this initial set of DB operations are
success, I need to make some external API call and after this external API call I have to update my
DB again.
So you can say that it's a final set of DB operations.
So three operations, first is update db, then external API call, then again update db something.
Okay, now if you have put at the rate transactional at top of this method, it will cause an issue.
Why?
Okay, just pause it.
Think for an answer why it will cause an issue.
It will cause an issue because external API call is involved here.
Now this external API call.
Let's say you are integration with third party or some other uh component which is taking some time,
which is uh, taking, let's say, three, four seconds to return you back.
Right.
So now you are holding your DB connections for that time and at the time of peak traffic, where you
have to open a large number of DB connections to update it, right.
This external API call could be a bottleneck because this is generally external.
API calls are the time taking, uh uh process.
And because of this, your DB connection is in hold for that amount of time.
It will not complete.
Okay.
So we and let's say that you the best way you can do is try to remove it.
But what I'm trying to say is that let's say that you have this kind of dependency one, two, three.
You cannot remove it.
You have to keep them together.
In that case, you can't use transaction.
It will choke your system during a peak hours.
So in that case programmatic can help you.
Okay.
So this is I'm telling you the approach one of programmatic where you are manually writing it everything.
So this is I'm telling you the approach one how you how we can write it.
So in the approach one so let's say this is the method name uh update user programmatic I have just
let's say that any method you want to update DB right.
So first from this manager or hierarchy, you already know that you need a one transaction manager object
because this only has get transaction commit rollback.
So you need this object.
And for getting an object you have to because this is an interface you can create an object of it.
You have to create an object of only concrete class.
So first step is very very clear that this is the first step you have to get an object of.
Platform transaction manager Which object right, which object you want.
So in App.config, as we discussed, you can tell, hey create a bean of this platform transaction manager,
let's say new data data source transaction manager I want to use.
So during application startup a bean would be created for this one.
Now you can use this right.
Either you can use auto wired here and you don't need constructor injection.
If you don't want to put at the auto wire you can use constructor injection.
Constructor injection.
So this user transaction manager object will get a reference of this bean data source transaction manager.
So first step is clear.
We got a platform transaction manager object.
Now programmatically we have to create transaction.
So first step is get transaction.
We get the transaction.
Now what happens is transaction is created.
Some transaction name would be given, right?
And other information would be provided.
I will tell you what all information we can give, but it will during this one.
If we haven't provided anything by default, it will.
Spring boot will automatically choose a particular name for a transaction and other details, but your
transaction would start.
So now once the transaction is created, now you can perform your task right.
So now you can run queries, update queries, whatever you wanted.
And once everything is successful we can use the transaction manager and call commit.
It will commit it.
If there is any issue, we will catch it and use the transaction manager and call the rollback okay.
So this is we are handling manually right.
Programmatic.
This is the approach one where we are writing everything.
So this is one way of handling the programmatic.
There is another, better way.
So I would say that this is the better way.
Of handling the programmatic.
So here in this case write this all get transaction commit rollback still be part of your code right.
So this is your only business logic but this is still part of your code.
So here Springboot says that hey you can use transaction template.
So transaction template which we can use.
So here in the transaction template consider it just as a wrapper.
Right.
So all this methods right.
Get transaction commit and rollback.
It just wrapped inside it.
We'll see how.
Now this is the approach too.
So now here, what we are doing is we have to first create an object of transaction template.
Okay.
Now let's see that here I again goes to the App.config at the configuration.
Now here I am creating a bean of transaction template transaction template.
Okay.
Now when I'm creating a transaction template bean I have to provide the.
One of the transaction manager.
Like what transaction manager you have to use okay.
So let's say that I have already created a bean platform transaction manager.
Right.
For I am using new data source transaction manager.
Right.
So here I am providing this only.
So when I'm creating a transaction template there we can provide what transaction manager you have to
use.
Okay.
Using that old self you would be able to.
So now you can put at the rate auto wired here itself.
You don't need constructor injection for this.
Or if you don't want to put at that auto wire constructor injection you can use it.
Now what would happen is uh, spring would look for this transaction template bean.
If it found it, it will assign a reference to this.
So now this is the first you have to create an object of transaction template here.
Now here, if you see in the transaction template there is a method called execute.
Now in the execute what is the.
Parameter.
It accept is transaction callback which is a functional interface.
I have already explained what how to how do you handle functional interface and lambda expression in
my Java uh, playlist?
So here I consider that you already know what is function interface and how to write a lambda expression.
So transaction callback.
Here we have a method called do in transaction.
So what exactly we have to pass here is the method your business logic which you want to run.
What template is that.
So it is provided a template.
So template generally we can say that the blueprint.
So what it does is it will get transaction.
Then it will have your callback callback function whatever.
So this is actually your business logic.
This is your business logic like your insert queries update queries whatever the you want to update.
And then there is a commit and rollback if required.
Right.
So it will catch it and rollback back it.
Something.
But you got it right.
So this template, this transaction template has provided us a blueprint.
They get transaction.
Now we can tell get a transaction of this transaction manager.
After that we will pass the callback function that where we have actually our business logic.
So this will run it.
After that it will do commit and rollback.
Okay.
So now the same thing which I am going to do.
First I have created an object of this transaction template.
Now I am calling the execute method.
Now in the execute method this is the callback function.
You have to pass.
So here I am creating my callback function and I have already shown you this is a functional interface.
So I am using a lambda expression to pass my business logic here as a function okay.
So here if you see I am passing my business logic, insert query, update, query, whatever I wanted
to update into this method I passed here.
Right.
And then I pass this into this execute method.
It will first get transaction right.
When it do get transaction this is the transaction manager it is using which we are telling right.
This transaction manager it is using.
So it will invoke proper get transaction method.
After that here it is doing do n transaction means ultimately it is calling our business logic.
Right.
So the same thing we it has done get transaction.
Then our business logic is running.
After that.
If any issue happen it is doing rollback or if any uh everything is success.
It does commit.
So it just little a cleaner approach of doing this.
But this is also one way of doing a programmatic transaction handling by using transaction template.
So.
I hope this two parts, declarative and programmatic is clear.
Now there is one very, very important part is we have to understand this propagation.
So what uh propagation means is when we try to create a new transaction, right.
When we try to create a new transaction, it first check the propagation value set.
Now based on that propagation only it will create a transaction okay.
It will get clear to you once we go through.
All right.
So now let's see this.
And when you will read this line again, it would be very much clear to you.
Now suppose that you already have a transaction.
You already have a transaction.
Method one you are doing something, something, something.
Now you are internally invoking method two.
Now this method two is also is at the rate transaction.
So internally for this method one when you have put at the transaction there internally it might have
done get transaction right.
The interceptor would have intercepted it.
And interceptor have done this.
Transaction if necessary.
See this condition if necessary.
Okay.
So internally it might have done get transaction only.
And here when the method two is invoked there also we have put at the rate transaction means internally
it also try to get a transaction.
Okay.
So this is inside this and this get transaction.
So it is inside this.
And it is try to a get transaction.
So this is for method two.
This is for method one okay.
Now see the question comes in the interview also.
And it should comes to you also.
Hey when method one is invoked we try to take one transaction and transaction let's say created transaction
one.
Now all the operations are happening within a particular transaction.
Now method two invoke.
Now method two also does get transaction.
right.
And this method two also has certain logic.
So now this method two logic would be a part of this transaction.
One or new transaction would be created and it would be part of that one.
So what what would happen.
That's where the propagation comes into the picture.
So let's go through one by one and it will help you to understand better.
The first propagation is required.
And this is also a default.
So whenever we have put at the transaction we haven't provided what is the propagation.
So by default what is the propagation it has chosen.
Required propagation not required.
If you have to provide specifically you can do like at the rate transactional propagation equals to
this required.
And if you even if you don't write it by default, the propagation is required only.
So what this requires is that if parent transaction present right.
So let's say that transaction one is already present.
This is for method one.
Now for method two it is it want it it want to create a new transaction.
So method two want to create a new transaction.
We have put that transaction here right.
So whether method two can can create a new transaction or not.
If parent transaction present use the same one.
Right.
So it will not create any new transaction.
No it will use the same transaction.
Else create new one.
If there is no parent transaction present then only it will create a new one.
Okay.
So let's see that with an example.
It will clarify you.
So now when I start the server and let's say that I am hitting an API.
So what happened?
So here if you see it will invoke this method one.
This method one is under transaction.
So let's see these two values.
What it is is transaction active true.
Yes this is active because already it is inside a transaction.
And what is the current transaction name.
It has a spring boot has given to us.
It is this.
Com concept and coding learning spring boot this method one.
So it has given the complete class path uh the method class path as a name itself okay.
So one transaction is created.
Now it has doing some operations and internally it called method two which is again a transaction okay.
Which is of required type.
Okay.
Just, uh, in the System.out.println, it is uh, I have printing required new, but consider it as
a required because we have changed it for understanding.
So now method two got invoked.
Now during method two got invoked at the rate transaction.
It will try to do get transaction internally interceptor.
But the propagation it will check in the propagation.
It will check whether it has to create a new transaction or not.
Required.
Required says that if parent transaction exists, use that one.
Don't create a new transaction.
So is actual transaction active?
Yes.
This method is also running inside a transaction.
That's why it said true.
What is the name of that transaction inside which this method is running?
If you see the same method one the same as the parent one, right?
It didn't create a new one.
So required is clear.
Required new.
Required new says that if parent transaction present, suspend the parent transaction for a while,
suspend doesn't means that it has been aborted.
No, aborted and suspend.
Both are different things.
So there it will suspend the parent transaction for a while.
Then what it will do is it will create a new transaction for this method two and it will perform its
operation in a new transaction.
And once that new transaction is committed or rollback whatever, after that it will resume the transaction.
So this is like if parent transaction present if parent transaction doesn't present, it will create
a new transaction and execute the method.
So let's see that now here from the method one I am calling method two.
Now change it to required new Okay, now let's start the server again.
The API again.
Okay, now let's see what's happening.
So first method one is it is it inside the transaction?
Yes.
What is the method name.
Put a current transaction name.
Some current transaction name.
It would put right.
Method one complete.
Now it is doing some initial DB operation.
It has printed.
Now it is calling method two.
Now method two is also under transactional but required new.
So what it will do is it will suspend the parent transaction for a while.
Now parent transaction is is in wait state.
Now this method to create a new transaction.
So this method two is running inside a transaction.
Yes.
What is the transaction name inside which it is running.
Now here, if you see this name is different than this one.
Okay.
And once it is finished committed, then it will resume the parent one.
So now the parent one some final DB operation, it will get printed.
Okay.
So you got it required new means you always need a new transaction.
If parent already has you will stop it.
Then create a new one.
Once finished then resume the parent.
Then we have supports.
Support means that if parent transaction present, use it, else execute the method without any transaction.
You don't need any transaction for the method two right?
So here in the method two, when you do like hey support supports.
So if parent transaction added it will use it.
If parent transaction doesn't exist, it it will not create any transaction at all for this method to
it will not create any transaction not supported.
If parent transaction present, suspend the present transaction.
Execute the method without any transaction and once without any transaction, this method is completed.
Then resume the parent transaction.
If parent transaction doesn't exist itself, execute without any transaction.
So this not supported means that no matter if parent transaction exist or not, it will execute the
method without any transaction.
Only then we have something called mandatory.
Mandatory says that if if parent transaction present, use it, otherwise throw exception.
So this mandatory is like parent transaction should be present.
So there you can use like mandatory.
Which says that parent transaction should be present.
So from where this method gets invoked it should also be inside a transaction.
It never creates a new transaction.
Otherwise it will throw exception.
Then there is something called never right.
Uh, so it's uh you can change it to never.
So what says that if parent transaction are present, it will throw exception, right?
Else execute the method without any transaction.
Never says that parent also should not have any transaction from where it is getting invoked, right?
If it is present, it will throw exception, otherwise it will execute the method without any transaction.
So these are the different ways of propagation.
And you already know that when you are using a declarative way, you are using add the transaction.
How you can provide the propagation, right?
You can provide the propagation like this.
Now we can check all this logic if else which I am telling you, it should be present into this.
What was the transaction interceptor.
So this was the class right transaction interceptor.
Inside that method create transaction if necessary.
Yeah.
So this create transaction if necessary calls this method get transaction.
So what it is doing is existing transaction if it is an existing transaction how to handle it.
So it will check propagation.
Never if propagation never throw an exception right propagation not supported like propagation required
new.
If propagation is required new then it will suspend the parent one and then it start a new transaction
so everything is is already doing it right.
The spring framework does the same thing, right?
It just like we can double check our understanding through the code.
Now you can ask me, right.
Okay.
Uh, we got it.
Like how we can pass the propagation, uh, through declarative.
But what about programmatic way of how in the programmatic way we can assign this propagation approach
one where we are writing everything?
So what is the first step?
The first step is getting an object of platform transaction manager.
Then how you will get an object.
You can there would be a one app.config in the inside an App.config.
You can create a bean of platform transaction manager and whatever the transaction manager you can create
a new of that.
Okay.
So now here what happens is now you have the object.
Now you have to call get transaction.
Now when you're doing get transaction right.
If you remember earlier we passed null here.
Now we are passing transaction definition.
So I have created a object of transaction definition right.
And I have set two things.
One is name.
I told you right earlier, if you don't provide any name, Springboot will give the random name or uh,
by any name to a transaction.
But if you want a specific name to be chosen for transaction, you can put into a definition and the
propagation which you want.
I want propagation required so you can put it and pass into the definition.
Okay.
So very simple.
Now in the approach to where we are using transaction template, how we can pass the propagation is.
So the first step is very, very clear that we have to create an object of a transaction template and
how we can create an object of transaction template in the App.config configuration.
We have to create a transaction template object which has the transaction manager as a parameter.
What transaction manager we wanted.
But after that itself, instead of returning from here, we can also set here this template.
This is the propagation behavior I wanted whether required, not required, never mandatory etc. and
any name you have to want to give a transaction.
You can also set a name and then return.
Now exactly the same thing which we have done before.
Okay, so I hope this declarative and programmatic is clear.
In the next part I will tell you about the isolation level in deep.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- @Transactional Annotation - Part3 | Isolation Level and its different Types ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept Encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the third part of Transaction Management of Spring Boot we are going to cover the isolation
level.
And this is very very important topic as part of Hld.
Also how do you maintain a concurrency and as well in day to day life if you are working?
So let's start without wasting any time.
So if I want to define isolation level in one line, I would say that it tells how the changes made
by one transaction are visible to other transaction running in parallel.
Right?
If you have confusion with this line, don't worry, we are going to see a lot of examples which will
make clear this sentence.
So if you have to use this isolation, how we can use is that when you are using this annotation at
the rate transaction, you can use this like isolation equals to isolation.
Dot read committed.
There are four types of isolation.
Read.
Uncommitted.
Read.
Committed.
Repeatable.
Committed and serializable.
So there are four types of isolation level.
So which type of isolation you have to use.
You can provide it here.
Let's say if you are not providing anything here, if you are not providing anything here, what would
be the default isolation level.
So C default isolation level depend upon the DB which we are using.
We can't say that hey default is always read committed or repeatable committed.
No it depends upon your DB and it might change in future also.
Okay so let's say all mostly relational database use read committed.
But it is possible that some of the relational database might use repetitive computing, right?
So we have to properly read what our DB are using.
If you are using Postgres or MySQL, you have to read properly that which isolation is the default isolation
IT support, right.
Why it is important.
Too much because of concurrency okay.
If you are using read uncommitted, it has very high concurrency means so many requests can run in parallel.
If you are using serializable, the concurrency is very low.
Very low means very less transaction can run in parallel.
Now you can ask me that concurrency high is good, right?
We want as much transaction can run in parallel.
So we should always use read uncommitted.
No.
So see it's always like if there is an advantage, there is a disadvantage also.
So we have to understand properly in which and when we have to use what.
That is actually what important is.
So before I come to read uncommitted, read committed, repetitive, committed or serious serializable.
Before I come to isolation level, let's first understand these problems.
There are three problems which actually this isolation level resolved.
Okay.
So let's first start with what is dirty read problem.
So what is dirty read problem.
Dirty read problem says that transaction A read the uncommitted data of other transaction.
Okay.
And if other transaction get rolled back, the uncommitted data which is read by transaction A is known
as dirty Read.
Now what?
Let's see this definition with an example.
So let's say this is the time.
This is transaction A.
This is transaction B and this is let's say a current DB status at time T1.
Both the transaction started in parallel begin transaction.
Begin transaction.
And this is the current state of the DB id one two, three.
And status of the column status is currently free at time t2 transaction B is updating the row which
has id one two, three and changing it to booked.
So DB status is currently 123 and status is booked.
But at this point of time transaction B has not committed.
Right.
It is still in progress.
Transaction is still in progress.
It is not yet committed or rollback.
It is still running okay.
So this status booked is This change by transition B, but it is not committed.
This transaction is not committed.
So at time T3 the transaction a read the row with ID 123.
So in the dirty read the transactions.
Also read the uncommitted data.
So even this status which is changed by transaction B is not committed yet.
Still it reads it.
So transaction A is able to read what is the status book.
Okay.
Now at time T4.
Now let's say transaction B some issue has come and does the rollback.
And now you know when rollback happened all the changes which it has done they again goes back to the
previous state.
So it again goes back from to free.
But the problem here is transaction.
Hey has read the Uncommitted Changes book, which is now not there into the DB.
This is known as dirty read transaction.
A is now suffered from a dirty read problem because it has read a row which has uncommitted data.
Right.
So the transaction which is not committed all the changes is also read by other transaction.
Then it is known as dirty read problem.
Okay.
So if this problem is clear let's move to another problem which is called Non-repeatable read problem.
Okay.
If suppose transaction A reads the same row several times and there is a chance that it get different
value than it is known as Non-repeatable read problem.
Let's understand with an example of what this definition says.
Let's say this is the transaction A, this is the current DB status at time T1 transaction started,
and this is the current state of db id one status free at time t2.
A read call has been made by transaction A for the id one.
So what is the status is read free okay.
Now let's say at time T3, some other transaction has happened and changed the status from free to booked
and also committed the changes so committed also.
So at time T4, if transaction A again runs the same query, read row id one.
Trying to read the same row.
It will not get the same data.
It will get data got changed.
Now what is the status getting booked.
Okay so that's what it is called as non repeatable read.
Read the same row several times and there is a chance that you get different value.
So this problem is clear like okay what this problem means that if you read a row multiple times there
is a chance that whatever the value you were getting before, now it's get changed.
And how like this is one kind of a use case where this value get changed.
And the third problem is called the read problem.
The phantom read problem says that if suppose transaction A executes same query several times, but
there is a chance that the rows returns are different itself, then it is known as phantom read problem.
Let's understand this definition with an example.
Let's say at time t one, the transaction a started the transaction begin transaction and this is the
current state of the DB.
Current status is Id1 is status is free ID row ID three is status is booked.
Currently let's say two rows are there.
So at time t two transaction A is trying to read a row where ID greater than zero and id less than five.
So what all rows will come, ID greater than zero and ID less than five.
So this both the rows will come right.
So it will read two rows with ID one and three.
Now let's say at time T3 some other transaction inserted the row with id two and committed also.
So now let's say that this new this is the new row has been added by some other transaction at time
T3 and also committed.
Okay now at time T for the transaction, A is running the same query again.
Okay, read row with id greater than zero and id less than five.
Now this time there is a chance that rows returns are different.
Now three rows are coming ID 123.
Because all three are satisfying this condition ID greater than zero and id less than five.
So this is known as phantom read problem when you are getting different rows itself with the same query.
Let me also tell you about de-blocking because this is also required.
So there are two types of de-blocking one is shared lock, shared lock and another is exclusive lock.
So shared locks is also represented by s exclusive lock is also represented by sometime X okay.
So shared lock is also known as Reed lock, and Exclusive Lock is also known as Right Lock.
Now.
Now let's say that I have a DB in which I have one row called.
Let's say ID is one and status is free.
Let's say one row is present.
So what is read lock or shared lock.
So now let's say that there are two transaction transaction one and transaction two.
So let's say that if transaction one wants to read this id one it can take shared lock.
Right?
I can represent the shared lock with s take on ID one.
It has taken a shared lock on ID one.
So currently somebody is taking a shared lock on this one.
Who?
Transaction one.
Now let's say that transaction T2T2 also want to read this row.
Will it be able to read it?
Yes, because shared lock can be, as the name says, that can be shared by multiple transaction, but
only for the reading purpose.
So transaction two also want to read it.
It can also put a shared lock and it can read this same row.
So what shared lock says that more than one transaction can put a shared lock and you can read the value.
That's all.
You can only read, but you cannot modify anything.
You can only read in other way.
The exclusive lock.
Let's say you have this ID one and status is free.
Transaction one and transaction two.
Now let's say if transaction one has to change something in this row right.
And it don't want any other transaction should either read or either should write.
Then it can go for Exclusive lock.
Exclusive lock on ID one.
So what exclusive lock has been taken by T1?
Now let's say that if transaction two want to read or write on ID one, will it be able to do that?
No, because there is a exclusive lock present.
Exclusive lock says that once the exclusive lock is taken by any transaction, no other transaction
would be able to even read or write.
So that's where it says that if a lock is shared lock, can another shared lock be taken?
Yes, you can take and you can read the value.
But if I have a shared lock, can another exclusive lock can be taken?
No.
If any transaction has taken a shared lock, let's say transaction one has taken a shared lock, right?
It has taken a shared lock.
And if transaction two says that hey, I want exclusive lock on T1, can I take it?
It will check.
Hey, somebody has already taken shared lock.
You can't take exclusive lock.
Only you can take shared lock.
You can read it, but you cannot write it till this shared lock is present.
Now, if a transaction has exclusive lock, right?
If a transaction has exclusive lock, let's say T1, can another transaction take shared lock on it?
No.
When exclusive lock is taken, you can't even read it.
You can't even write it, so you can't even read it.
You can't even write it.
You can't take do exclusive lock also.
Okay.
So by this point of time, two types of locking and this three problems if it is clear, then you will
clearly understand what this isolation actually solves the problem.
So read uncommitted isolation level solves nothing.
You will have a dirty read problem.
You will have non-repeatable problem and you will have phantom read problem.
Also why you can ask write interviewer can ask why read uncommitted has all three problems because the
read uncommitted do not even take read law.
Do not even apply the write lock also.
So now let's say that if in db I have an id one and the status is free, transaction one and transaction
two, transaction one reads it.
It do not put any lock it, just read it write Right.
And transaction one.
Transaction two want to write it?
It can directly go ahead and change it.
There is no locking at all.
If there is no locking, there is like whichever transaction one they can change it and the same dirty
read problem can come.
Transaction two can change it to booked, which transaction T one can read it.
And what if transaction two got rollback?
The same dirty read can come similarly the same non-repeatable read and the phantom read problem.
Whichever we have discussed above, the same thing can come because no locking has been acquired by
read uncommitted.
So the one follow up question, which comes also right then why this isolation level exists.
When all three problems are present, no locks are acquired.
Then why do this isolation level exist itself?
This isolation level is only used when you have only read application.
If you have an application where the use case is only read, you have a static data and you only read,
then only this isolation level is useful.
Otherwise it is of no use.
Like it's very risky to use this because of all three problems which can come.
So it has to be used very, very like.
If you are properly clear that these three problems will not impact your business logic or but, you
know, right, concurrency would be high, concurrency is very high.
Why?
Because there is no locking.
No, no transaction is stopping at all.
If they want it, they can get the data.
If they want to write, they can write it simply right.
There is no wait time for anybody.
There is no locking at the DB row.
But this is risky.
The another one is read committed.
So these two are pretty like you can say that mostly used right depending upon the use cases.
Read committed and repeatable read.
So read committed solves dirty read dirty.
Read possible.
No, it solves this problem.
So this is solved, but it does not solve non-repeatable read and it do not solve the phantom read problem,
but only solve dirty read problem.
So what read committed does is it puts a while reading it.
Put a shared lock right?
And as soon as it read it, it releases the lock.
As soon as that read is done.
And for the right exclusive lock acquired and keep till the end of the transaction.
Now let's say that you have.
Transaction one.
Transaction two.
Right now here the same thing.
If transaction one.
So let's say this is the ID one and status is free.
Now transaction one want to read it ID one.
So what it will do is it will first take a shared log on ID one and it will read the value.
Let's say read the value status free.
As soon as it's read it it release the lock.
So lock has been released.
So earlier it take a shared lock by transaction one.
As soon as the read is done, shared lock has been removed.
Okay, now dirty read problem is solved, right?
That, uh.
If it want to write anything, it will take a exclusive lock.
Now let's say transaction one.
Want to write on this data.
So what it will do is it will take exclusive log by T1.
It will take an exclusive log right on Id1.
Now let's say it will change the status to booked.
It will change the status to booked.
But now here if you see it will release this exclusive log only at the end of the transaction.
End of transaction.
End of transaction could be either commit or rollback.
Only after this only it will release this log.
So now since it has taken this, if now in let's say this is time one time two at time three.
Now let's say at time T3, any other transaction wants to read it will transaction two will be able
to read it.
No because exclusive log is there.
So transaction two would not be able to read it.
So it is safe from the Dirty Read program.
You can't read it till it is not committed or rollback right?
But does read uncommitted is not solving the non-repeatable problem.
No, it it is not solving it.
Why?
Because let's say that here it is running this query.
Now let's say that it is running this query transaction one read ID one.
And currently what is the status it got.
Let's say free.
This is the DB status for now.
Uh ID equals to one and status is free.
This is the DB state for now table state.
So at time Transaction.
T1 currently has read it.
Okay, so this is at time one.
Now at time two because see during read it just take a shared lock and after reading it release the
lock.
Also it releases it.
So now at time t two transaction two can like take an exclusive lock and update it.
Start begin the transaction let's say update the row and change the ID equals to one to booked.
Okay so at time T2, some other transaction has taken an exclusive lock here and change its status from
free to booked.
Okay.
And also committed also now the transaction is completed.
Now at time three again, the transaction one is running the same query, read ID one what status it
will get now booked right.
So see the value got changed.
So that's why the read committed do not solve the non-repeatable read problem.
And similarly the phantom read problem is also not resolved, right?
The same thing.
You can change the same to let's say read query is like a range query, read ID one, read ID one,
or you can say that read row where ID greater than zero and less than five.
Read all this rows.
So first time let's say you get two rows.
But since this is only reading so it will put a shared lock which will ultimately, after reading,
get removed, it will release the lock.
But let's say some other time.
Time T2 some other transaction has inserted new row.
Let's say some other transaction.
Insert new row.
The same like what we see above the phantom.
Right.
Insert new row and it begin and committed the transaction also.
Right.
So exclusive lock taken and after committed the transaction two the lock has been shared.
Lock has been exclusive.
Lock has been removed.
Now at time t three the same transaction T1 running the same query read all rows greater than zero and
less than five.
Now this time it will get earlier it get two rows.
Now maybe it possible that it get this row also if it follows within the range.
So now it might get three rows like what we see above right.
So No, it does not solve the phantom read problem also.
Why?
Because while reading it, it just takes a shared lock, but it releases it as soon as possible.
Okay, but during writing it, take an exclusive lock and keep it till the end of the transaction.
So that's why it is able to resolve the dirty read.
But since the shared lock is released, uh, some other transaction may be after that change, something
committed properly and the transaction and during running the same query, it might get the different
data.
So it do not solve this too.
Then there is something called repeatable read.
Repeatable read solves.
Dirty read.
Problem solved.
Also solve the non-repeatable read.
So these two are solved, but it do not solve this phantom read problem.
How the repetitive read.
So during reading it, acquire the shared lock and released only at the end of the transaction.
Not like just after reading release it know once it taken a shared lock on a particular row, it will
release only at the end of the transaction.
Similarly, right once the exclusive lock acquired released only at the end of the transaction.
So the same you can try are replicating it and understand with the same two transactions.
I have transaction one and transaction two right at time one.
Let's say if this is the DB row one and id is one, and the status is free at time one, it has acquired
a shared lock on ID one.
So shared lock has been taken by transaction one.
Now let's say begin transaction.
Now, this lock will not be released until this transaction is not ended and can be happen through either
commit or it could be rollback.
So let's say this is something whenever like let's say whenever whatever the time would be, some I
whatever the time would be till this time.
This lock is now not going to remove.
Okay.
So other transactions can only read it.
You can only read it.
But can any other let's say in mid here in this time mid let's say time T2 can this take an exclusive
lock and update this one.
No.
Because when the shared lock is taken you know that you can't update it.
Only you can read it.
So you you you will not get a exclusive lock.
So no matter how much time you will read the same row I read again here at time T2, you will get the
same status here.
Also you got free here also you got free if later on.
Also you would do read here.
Also you would get free.
Okay, so now it's you have resolved the non-repetitive problem by putting a shared log and keep it
till the end of the transaction.
No other transition in now between this time can change it, right?
And also the dirty read also resolved because dirty read dirty read problem.
It's get resolved by because the lock exclusive lock.
Now let's say that the same row transaction one.
Transaction two.
Now let's say that transaction one wants to update it.
It take an exclusive lock on row one and wants to change it from free to booked.
So this will get to booked but here.
Exclusive lock is taken by T1 and this lock would be kept till the end of the transaction.
Either committed properly or rollback.
Now transaction two in mid cannot even take shared lock for reading or cannot even take exclusive lock
for writing.
So it cannot even read it.
So you dirty read problem is also solved till this lock is not removed and it will only get removed
once it is properly committed or it is rollback properly.
Okay, but phantom read problem is not resolved.
How?
Now here.
If you see that if you have two rows with ID one and let's say for here you have free here If you have,
let's say, pending some status.
This is my DB table.
This is ID, this is status.
Okay.
So now what is happen is let's say transaction one.
Transaction two at time t one.
Okay.
Let's say you have read ID greater than zero and ID less than five.
So how many rows.
So you have put a shared lock now shared lock by T one.
Okay.
On which row on here.
If we have put this shared lock here by T one shared lock here by T one.
Both the rows okay.
So begin transaction.
So now this lock will be kept till this transaction is not completed either commit or rollback.
Now let's say this is at T1.
And now let's say at time t two another transaction started the begin transaction and take an exclusive
lock.
Or you can say that doing a insert with ID equals to two.
So c one for ID two is not there.
So some other row has inserted a new row two with id new row is inserted two and some other status let's
say free because see there is no shared lock on this right.
Two part.
So any other transaction can go ahead and insert it and complete this transaction let's say properly
committed okay.
Now let's say at time three this transaction T1 runs the same query again read I.
D greater than zero and id less than five.
Will it get the same two rows earlier?
Like it get one.
And for now it will get one for and two because this query is now satisfying this three.
So phantom read problem is there still there in this repetitive read.
The last one is serializable.
What serializable does is it.
There is no dirty read problem here.
There is no non repeatable problem here and there is no phantom read.
It resolved.
All solved.
Solved.
Solved how the serializable.
Same as repeatable log read log strategy.
So it it uses the same strategy during reading it.
Require it take a shared log and release only at the end of the transaction.
Exclusive lock is taken while writing and released only at the end of the transaction.
It does the same thing, but it applies a range lock.
It applies the range lock.
Now here, if you see the phantom read problem, I will tell you the same.
Let's say this.
We will pick the same thing.
The two row one and four status is free.
Some status is pending now in the.
If you are if you are using the serialization uh, isolation level, if transaction one and transaction
two are running transaction two, let's say begin the transaction.
And it is doing this at time one read.
ID greater than zero and ID less than five.
So what it will do?
It will.
So it is doing reading so means it will put a shared log and it will release only at the end of the
transaction.
Correct.
That's what it is.
Does like repetitive read.
But one change is it put a range lock.
Range lock means all the 0 to 1 two, three, four.
So it will put a shared lock here by t one shared lock here at time T two uh not T2T1 transaction t
one put a shared lock on this.
Also it put a range lock.
So this is kind of a range lock.
Range lock means now 1234.
These all are kind of lock.
Now let's say at time two some other transaction has started.
Begin transaction And now wants to take an exclusive lock and insert A with ID equals to two.
Will it be able to insert it?
No, this will not be because at second row also range lock is already present here, which is a shared
lock which no other transaction can insert it in the mid between this one and ID greater than zero and
five.
Whatever the rows are satisfying this condition, a shared lock would be put right and it's a range
lock means anything coming in mid of it.
Also it will get locked.
That's how it is solving the phantom read problem, because now no other transaction would be able to
insert any new data in mid and so that now at time T3, if the same query runs again.
Read id greater than zero and ID less than five.
The same two rows will get returned, so there is no new rows will come because another transaction
won't be able to insert because range lock has been present.
All all this, all this rows which are satisfying this plus any rows which are coming in mid those are
get logged.
You cannot do any insertion in mid.
But this one thing clarifies you that the concurrency of serializable is very less or very low.
The concurrency rises, but the risk of certain problems arises like this.
So during which DB to use and which isolation level to use during transaction, it is very important
decision.
Interviewer.
Might.
This is very interesting topic for an interviewer that you know which isolation level should use.
So generally, depending upon the requirement, either repetitive read or repetitive read, committed
or repetitive committed.
Out of this two only this is one is required because they give like some yes, concurrency is there,
but also problem is solved.
So whenever this question come, ask interviewer that okay, whatever the application we are building
Non-repeatable read is a problem or not.
If non-repeatable read is not a problem, right?
Go for read committed.
If it is a problem, go for repeatable commit, right?
So I hope this is clear to you.
But this uh, if let's say that if you ask me.
Right.
Hey, like where this shared lock exclusive lock actually code is present.
See here in your application you will simply write, read, let's say select query.
You will write select query, write.
Select asterisk from your table.
Where ID equals to one.
You will write only this query.
Now, depending upon the isolation level which your DB is using, there is something called DB Transaction
manager.
Write.
With each DB there is some transaction manager.
So this locking code.
Okay I am using isolation level.
I have to use isolation level read.
So during application you just tell which isolation level to use.
Hey use read committed, then it will during select query, it will make sure that it will put a shared
lock and release it as soon as you read it.
So this taking a lock.
Releasing the lock.
Taking a shared lock.
Releasing the lock is exist into DB transaction manager, which is not like at a at a application layer.
This is not visible to us.
It's abstracted.
Okay, we just simply write insert query update query, but only isolation level is something which
will tell to the DB transaction manager which ultimately talks to DB, but what locking it should use,
when to use, when to release.
This is guided by isolation level, and that's where the.
If you read the definition again, it tells how the changes made by one transaction are visible to another
transaction running in parallel.
I hope this definition makes sense.
Now with that being said, like the transaction management is a spring boot, I am completed and see
you soon with the next topic of the Spring Boot by.

--- Spring boot @Async Annotation - Part1 | ThreadPoolExecutor ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the Spring Boot series we are going to cover the async annotation.
There are lot more things to cover in async annotation and lot more things happen behind it.
We will see in depth.
But before I proceed further this three Java topics, I would say that it's a prerequisite.
If you want to understand the async annotation properly, you should know how to create a thread and
its life cycle.
What is thread pool and thread pool executor and what is future callable and completablefuture and how
it works.
Okay, so let's start this.
So here in this first let me in very brief I will tell you about thread pool and thread pool executor.
And I want to make sure that we are all in same page.
Right.
We have the same understanding of the thread pool and thread pool executor, but please check out this
three videos which are in depth and it is available in Java series, which is a prerequisite to understand
async annotation.
Okay, what is Threadpool?
Threadpool is a collection of threads which are available to perform the submitted tasks.
Once the task completed, threads get back to the thread pool and wait for the new task to assign.
Means thread can be reused.
Okay, so let's understand with this diagram.
So in so there is something understand is there is something kind of pool in which we have pre-created
the threads, we have pre-created the threads and available to pick the task.
Now there is some available and application also involved which is submitting the task.
So this task gets submitted into this queue first.
Now any thread which is free in this pool will pick the task from the front of the queue and start processing
it at once the task is completed, the thread goes back to this pool and now is available to pick any
other task from the queue.
Okay, so this thread pool executor involves couple of things.
Like to understand this, there is something called right minimum pool size.
Minimum pool size means what should be the minimum number of threads which should be pre-created.
Maximum pool size.
What is the maximum number of threads we can create?
That is the number which says maximum pool size.
Queue size.
What should be the length of this queue?
How many tasks it can accommodate.
So this size tells this So determining this thing is very a good interview question.
Also.
And determining these three things involve lot of consideration like what is your CPU memory and all
these things which I have explained this in this video thread pool executor in the Java series.
Okay, so but for understanding this thread pool executor, let's say that minimum pool size is two,
maximum pool size is four and the queue size is three.
Just for now.
And let's understand the behavior so that we all are in the same page that how the thread pool executor
works.
So now let's say that you have a queue with size 3012 and you have a pool of two threads thread one,
thread two, which is currently available minimum pool size.
So it is free.
Now let's say task is coming.
Task one comes.
So task one goes into the queue and thread one will pick it.
So task one is now getting processed by thread one.
So this is now busy.
Now task two is coming.
Task two will be put into the queue right?
And task two will be picked by thread two.
So thread two will take it and start processing it.
Now both threads are busy.
Now let's say they haven't completed it.
So the pool is currently there is no free threads available.
Okay, now let's say that task three is coming.
So task three will go into the queue.
So currently both this task one and two has already been removed because they have been processing.
So task three is coming.
So now here if you see task three is there any thread available which can pick this task.
Currently no.
Both the threads thread one and thread two are busy, so task three will wait into the queue.
Now let's say task four is coming, so task four will go into the back of the queue.
Is there any thread available which can pick?
No.
Both are busy so it will wait into the queue.
Now task five is coming again.
It will goes into the back of the queue and it will wait till any thread is free.
Now task six is coming.
Now what would happen to the task is is there any thread available?
No thread.
Both the threads are busy so minimum pool size.
Both the threads are busy.
Is there any available size available space in the queue?
No queue is full.
There is no space.
So what shall we do for the task?
Six shall we discard it?
No.
Then it goes and check the max pool size.
Hey, what is the max pool size?
Can I create more thread?
Yes, Max pool size says that the maximum number of thread in a pool can be four, so currently we have
only two, so it will create a new thread.
Uh thread three and now thread three will pick it.
Task six will get picked by thread three.
So task is gonna pick thread three and it is not there into the queue.
Now let's say that task seven is coming.
Task seven it will say hey any thread available thread.
So thread three is already processing task six.
Hey any available thread there in the pool?
No.
Any space available in the queue?
No.
So shall we discard the task seven.
It will check what should be the maximum pool size for what is available currently.
Three we can create one more.
So it will create new thread thread four and that will Processing task seven thread four.
Okay, so this is also getting processed.
Now let's say task eight is coming.
What would happen to the task eight.
Is there any new thread or free thread available?
No.
Is there any space available in the queue?
No.
It will check what is the maximum pool size I can create for?
So what is the number of thread 1234?
Already you have reached to the max.
Now you can't do anything.
This will get rejected.
Now let's say that the thread one has processed the task, one completed and it is now available now.
Thread one is now available into the queue back again.
So thread one is now available.
Now it goes back to the pool again.
So what thread one will do.
It will check the queue and it will take the front of the queue.
So task three.
So task three will get now processed by thread one.
So now it is now getting processed.
So this is a very basic understanding of thread pool and thread pool executor, which I have explained
in depth here.
And this is the semantics.
Like this is how we create a thread pool in Java.
We create a new thread pool executor object, provide a minimum pool size, maximum pool size and what
should be the queue size?
There is something called Keepalive time time unit hours which you will get to know in this video itself,
right?
But for their simplicity and the basic understanding and just kind of a quick recap, these three things
are important.
Minimum pool size, maximum pool size, and queue size, which I have already told you how these three
plays a crucial role in this task sequencing.
Okay, now let's start Not understanding how async annotation works.
So async annotation is used to mark method that should run a synchronously or asynchronously means in
a new thread.
So when you start a particular application, let's say so it's always starting in a one.
Let's say thread one, or sometime we call it as a main thread.
Right.
So always one thread will get picked and start your program.
Now what happens is whenever you have put a certain method as async right?
We are telling that hey, create a new thread.
It will create some new thread.
Let's say thread two and that method will get executed in And by this new thread.
But our main thread is get now unblocked and will continue processing further.
Okay, so here let's say we have a sync method.
So a sync method it will initiate a new thread.
And that will now continue processing whatever we have task available in that method.
So it is getting executed by the new thread which is got spawned.
But the main thread which is running that get unblocked and that will continue processing ahead.
Okay, so runs in a new thread without blocking the main thread.
So take this example.
So here first thing first we have to put this annotation in our main application spring boot application
where we have put this annotation right at the rate spring boot application.
So we have to put an annotation right at the rate enable a ussing.
What is the purpose of this annotation?
The purpose of this annotation is once you once Spring Boot sees that hey, this annotation is present.
It will create a bean for Ussing classes which is required for processing the async task.
There are so many things Ussing interceptors, and there are so many other classes which get involved,
but they will only get their objects or their beans will get only be created when you will put this
annotation.
Otherwise spring unnecessarily will not create an or create a bean for those classes.
Okay, so whenever we have to use an async functionality for the async annotation, we have to tell
the spring that hey, create a bean for those async classes also.
So enable Ussing is the annotation Now I have written one very, very simple method Rest controller.
Very simple API.
You already know that it get mapping, get user and very simple method.
So here I am printing inside get user method whenever we will invoke this API slash API slash get user
it.
This will get invoked and it will print inside get user method.
And I'm printing what is the thread name.
So generally this is the main thread name right.
The main thread.
Now here if you see that I am invoking an another method which is inside user service class and it is
calling the async method.
So this is the user service class right user service class managed by spring async method.
So this is the method which is getting invoked.
And now this method I have put at the rate async.
Now once I have put at rate Ursing mean, I am telling spring that hey, this method should get be processed
by new thread instead of the main thread which is running.
So this thread is the main thread which which is running.
Now when this method gets invoked, this thread should be the new thread.
So this I am just printing the thread name inside async method name.
And what is the thread name?
So this should be different than the main thread.
So if we run this and see the output inside Getuser method.
This one inside Getuser method.
So this is like your main thread.
And here inside async method task one.
So here the thread name is task one async method.
What is the thread name?
Task one.
So here if you see that these are the two different threads.
Now if you run continuously.
So here I am running continuously.
So I have hit the endpoint.
Get user.
Then again I hit the endpoint.
Get user just to show you that every time you will hit it will create a new thread here.
Earlier it was created thread one, that thread two, then thread three, then thread four.
So every time a new thread will get created inside a async method task.
Task five.
So this is the thread name it has given new async method 678 right?
New async method.
Generally I am printing the thread name.
So here if you see every time you will hit it will just create a new thread.
Okay.
So this is what async annotation does.
Looks very simple right?
But not so.
Now let's come to this question.
How does this async annotation create a new thread?
Here.
When I put an async annotation and whenever a main thread is invoking this, it creates a new thread
like okay thread created inside async thread.
Which which thread this thread.
So it is different than what's the parent thread?
So how does this async annotation creates a new thread?
Many places you will find that Springboot uses by default simple async task executor which create new
thread every time blindly, right?
So here if you say I have just put at the async nothing else, I haven't provided any thread executor
like or thread pool executor that this should be the minimum number of pool, maximum number of pool,
or even pool is present or not.
I haven't told that so many places you will see.
They will say that hey, spring boot!
By default, using simple async task, executor means blindly create a new thread every time it is required.
I will say this is not a fully correct answer and you might get stuck in a follow up.
Questions.
But let's understand like what is the right answer and how this exactly work internally?
Okay, but before I proceed further here, if you see if you see below the Spring Boot framework code.
So this is one spring boot internally one some async class here.
If you see async execution interceptor inside this you will find this code.
What it say first it will try to identify get default executor.
If it able to find some default executor when we when I say default executor considered as a thread
pool executor where you have a minimum pool size.
Maximum pool size, what should be the queue size?
Like this.
So first spring.
Also try to see hey, can I use any default executor?
If default executor is null then only it use spring async task.
Simple async task executor this one.
But what?
But in what all scenario it able to find a default executor here.
If you see this.
If you see this example above where I have just put at the rate enable async and at that async.
So it is using task one, task two, task three and task five, task six, task seven, task eight.
And if you go proceed further, it will again start from task one.
Task two.
Task three means there you will see that the question should have come to you if you do debug, right?
Hey, I am using at the rate ircing and from everywhere else.
According to their logic, a spring boot should have used simple async task executor, so it should
have create new thread every time.
So it should be like eight, nine, ten, 11, 12.
But after eight why?
Again it's going back to the one.
Is there any some kind of thread pool involved.
So answer lies here and we will see that first spring boot.
See any default executor it can use if it if the answer is yes it will use that.
If the answer is no then it will use simple async task executor.
Now let's see different use cases and we will find our answer.
Use case one.
I am creating a simple spring boot application.
I have just put at the rate.
Enable async letting.
Spring boot knows that hey, create a bean for async classes because I am going to use an async operation.
If you see my app config at the rate configuration, it's empty.
I haven't provided any kind of functionality or my custom thread pool executor.
Nothing.
Now in this class I have put one async method.
Similarly.
Like above, I have told.
I have put at the rate async write and I have one controller which calls this method.
I have showed you above, right?
Let's say that that controller is still present there, which invoking this async method.
Okay, so now what would this what would happen here.
Now this is exactly the same as the above one.
How after thread.
Task eight.
Again.
Task one.
Task two.
The thread name coming.
So what would happen?
So during application startup when you start an application.
Spring boot sees that no thread pool task executor present.
So it creates its default thread pool task executor.
So what spring boot does is it checks.
Hey does developer or does application define any thread pool executor or thread pool task executor?
No, we have not provided anything.
So what spring boot does is spring boot creates its own or creates its default thread pool task executor
with below configuration.
Core pool size means minimum pool size eight.
Maximum pool size is your integer dot max value and the q capacity is again integer dot max value.
Okay, but this is how it created.
And that's where we see that when I run it it say 12345678.
So eight eight threads are available.
So they picked it right after that.
When I put again it again started from 123456.
Right.
No new thread created.
But here if you see it has certain disadvantages.
Also because the max pool size are very big, even the Q size are very big.
Okay, so it has certain disadvantage.
And also I will tell uh, before coming to the disadvantage of this, I will tell you that here spring
boot try to see thread pull task executor.
So see, there is something called thread pool executor which is Java, plain Java, and there is something
called thread pool task executor.
This is spring.
This is a spring wrapper.
This is spring wrapper around this.
Okay.
So spring boot sees what thread pool task executor.
This one.
Okay.
So here if you see the thread pool task executor is nothing but a spring boot object which is just a
wrapper around thread pool executor.
So here if this is the class thread pool task executor.
If you go inside this internally, what it is doing.
Creating a plain Java thread pool executor only.
So it's just a wrapper which again creates a Same thread pool executor.
Plain Java thread pool executor.
Okay, so when you provide this kind of code spring boot again check this thread pool task executor.
If no thread pool task executor present, it will create its own default one with this configuration.
And this configuration has certain disadvantage which is not recommended.
All to use.
First under utilization of thread.
Under utilization of thread means with fixed mean pool size and unbounded queue.
I told you the flow.
What happened?
The maximum pool size will only come into the picture when the pools this are busy and the queue is
totally filled.
But here in this if you see the queue size is too big.
It's a very rare that this cube will get filled up.
So means even though your application can afford that.
Okay, I can create new threads, but still new thread will not get created because the queue is not
yet filled.
So that's why I say that the first problem with this underutilization of thread.
Even though you can afford to create a new thread more than eight, but it won't create because the
queue is not filled itself because queue size is too big.
High latency.
Since the queue size is too big, they will keep on waiting.
So now let's say that your all the eight threads are busy.
Thread one to thread eight are busy now any task which are coming.
Task nine.
Task ten.
They will keep on waiting into the queue until queue is not filled up before it.
A new thread get spawned from the max pool size.
So here if you see, since the queue capacity is too huge, this task will keep on appending and they
will keep on waiting for this out of this eight thread only to get free and then they will pick it right.
We are not creating new threads from the max pool size because queue is not getting filled up, so they
will keep on waiting into the queue itself.
So high latency is another problem with this one.
Thread exhaustion.
Thread exhaustion is there that see it is very rare.
Rare in this thread exhaustion.
But it's possible.
How come?
See there is no control.
Core pool size eight.
Queue capacity is this and maximum pool size is this.
Everything is like not infinite, right?
What if like core pool size eight all thread one to thread eight are busy.
The queue become filled.
Completely filled Field 022147483646.
All the tasks got filled up, let's say.
And now it will start creating threads from the max till the max pool size is not reached.
And now let's say that because of some issue it is keep on creating a new threads and this limit is
also reached.
Now you are out of thread and your application will crash.
It's very unlikely here because the size are too big.
But thread exhaustion is possible because nobody is controlling that where should get stopped and they
keep on creating the threads till it is finished.
Another is high memory usage.
See, each thread needs some memory.
Now just assume that if you are creating so many threads.
Now let's say that all eight threads are created.
Queue is full.
Now you are trying to create a thread till this max pool size is reached.
You are creating so many threads and there is a chance that high memory usage.
Your system will perform.
Performance will get degrade.
So there are so many.
See, these are just for disadvantage if you go further.
Right.
There are so many.
Other disadvantage comes into the picture.
But these four are very sufficient to say that we should not go with the default thread pool executor
functionality.
So we should never use this.
So use case one.
We should never use this.
We just put at the rate, enable a sink and just put at the rate sink.
No.
So what should we do.
Let's see the use case two creating our own custom thread pool task executor.
Right?
I am saying task executor means spring one, not the plain Java.
This is a wrapper which internally will create a plain Java one.
So here, if you see in the spring boot application I am creating at the rate enable async, it will
tell Spring boot to initialize classes which is required.
And this is the method, the same method where I am putting at the async only first.
First ignore this.
I'll tell you first, focus only on this one.
It's exactly the same right at the async I am putting.
And this async method.
It's just printing this.
Now inside this configuration I am providing my own thread pool task executor on thread pool task executor.
So I am creating a new object of thread pool task executor providing a minimum pool size to maximum
pool size four and the queue size is three.
So here you know that in the plain Java I have already told you in plain Java how you can do it in plain
Java.
You can do it like this.
Write new thread pool executor minimum.
Maximum.
Like this.
Right?
But here in the spring, it's just a wrapper.
Right.
So it's a little bit, uh, read like readability is better.
So I am putting core pool size here.
You can set the max pool size.
You can set the queue capacity.
And even you can give the thread name prefix like I want this thread name prefix, my thread hyphen
and you can initialize it.
Now what would happen when I start an application during application startup?
What is spring boot?
Say that Spring boot will try to identify if you see this code.
First step.
Spring boot will try to identify see any default executor it can use.
And yes, now here in this case, during application startup, a spring boot sees that thread pool task
executor bean is already present.
We because we have created a bean right for this.
So this bean is already present.
So spring boot will not create its own thread pool executor.
It will use over itself.
So see, even though we haven't tell here which one to use, but still it will use this only.
Right?
So during application startup, Spring Boot sees that the thread pool task executor bean is present.
So this will make it default.
So either you use it, you will get the same or either if you provide the name which explicitly executor.
So here the bean I have provided a name.
So the same name you can give it here.
So either you specifically mention that.
Okay I want to use you use my executor then also it will use this only even if you don't use this.
And if you, even if you just put at the rate it will not use simple async task executor.
That is wrong.
It will use over only.
Why?
I already told you it.
First try to see.
Is there any default?
Is there any threadpool task executor being present?
If no spring boot creates its own.
If it is present, the spring boot use that only.
So now here, if you see that in both the scenario, whether you use it without name or with name,
the output would be same.
Now if you call multiple time.
So I'm calling multiple times.
So each time you will see that this is the main thread.
And when our async method invoke my thread one.
So here if you see I have given the prefix my third hyphen.
Second time my thread two.
So I have.
What is the minimum pool size?
I have given two right, and threads are got free.
As soon as there is nothing high processing I am doing.
So the third time I am running again this only pig.
Next time I'm running thread two pig.
Next time I'm running again thread one pig.
So here if you see these two threads are able to handle all the tasks and if we have to understand the
queue and all.
So let's say that I am putting sleep in the async method.
So in the async method I purposely added the sleep after putting inside async method, and I have put
a sleep just to make sure that okay, once the thread pick this, they busy and they are not get free
and then test it.
So now what happen is say first time I ran Minimum pool sizes two max is four and the queue size is
three, right 243.
Yeah.
So now here if you see task one come thread one got picked.
So only one left.
Second task come thread two got picked.
So no free threads available in the minimum pool.
It's now zero.
Now more task is coming.
So it is just putting into the queue.
So here if you see no thread get created.
So it just putting task three.
Task four.
Task five.
Now here if you see task six is coming what happen is another thread got invoked because maximum is
four.
So one more thread comes in.
A new thread comes into the picture.
Now that is also free and that is also busy.
Now another thread is coming.
Uh, another task is coming.
Seven.
All three.
This two and this three are busy.
Queue is full again.
I can create one more.
So thread four created and task seven is getting processed.
So this is also busy.
Now eight is coming.
Task eight.
All four threads are busy.
Queue is full.
Task is get rejected.
Okay.
Task eight got rejected.
So now here if you see that the thread pool is working like how we want it based upon our analysis,
what should be good for our system?
We have come up with this number and now it's working as expected.
We are not allowing that you can create more threads apart from this number.
So this is you can say recommended solution.
Okay.
And one one answer.
You have got that even though we are using at the rate ussing, it is not picking simple async task
executor because first it will check any thread pool task executor bean is present and yes, it is present.
Now let's understand the use case three.
Very interesting use case creating our own thread pool executor.
But the Java one.
In the previous one we have created a custom thread pool task executor spring one which spring looks
for.
But what if we create a Java one here?
Now here.
If you see the same thing I have put at the rate enable async.
And now here I am using at the rate async only.
But here I am using plain Java plain Java to create a thread pool executor, not thread pool task executor,
which is for spring.
I am using plain Java, but I am creating a bean for the executor.
Now what would happen?
What would happen if I run this?
Will it?
Will this executor be picked?
No.
What would happen is I told you during application startup Spring boot sees that.
Hey, thread pool executor, the Java one bean is present so it do not create its own default or try
to even look for thread pool task executor itself.
So spring wrapper one is like a second priority.
The first priority is that hey, if the Java thread pool executor we have itself defined, if you if
you use thread pool task executor internally, it will create a Java thread pool executor this command.
But if we itself have provided the thread pool executor right?
This executor is now instance of thread pool executor.
Okay, so since we have provided this spring boot will not even look for this thread pool task executor.
So now in this case, what would happen is this one the default executor come as null and once it is
come as null, it will pick simple async task executor.
Right.
So that's the you can say that the use case where it only pick simple async thread executor where we
have provided our own plain Java thread pool executor.
Right?
Then spring boot will not even create an instance of thread pool task executor.
Right.
And if you are using Ussing, then at this point of time spring will go for simple async task executor.
Now here, if you see if I run now here.
If you see the first time application main run it pick simple async task executor one second time 23456789.
See after eight it just keep on 1011.
Now it will not go after it again.
One it will just keep on going.
If you keep on hitting, it will keep on going.
Now here the name thread name itself say async simple async task executor because we have provided this
thread pool executor the plain Java one.
So what to do?
We have to provide this.
We have to here provide a proper name.
Okay.
Whenever you have used the plain Java thread pool executor, we have to tell specifically Spring Boot
that hey, use this executor async and give that executor name.
Then it will pick your thread one, thread two.
My thread one.
My thread two.
So whatever I am giving.
Okay, so always remember whenever you are using plain Java executor, your.
Also you have to specifically provide the name to the async.
But if you are using spring thread pool thread.
Thread pool task executor without even providing it will work without even providing it will work like
this because the code will look for any thread pool task executor present.
Okay.
And also, you know that this simple async task executor is not recommended because of the same reason
thread exhaustion.
Since blindly creating a new thread with every async request might lead up to thread exhaustion.
Thread creation overhead.
Since threads are not reused, thread management, like creation destroying is an additional overhead.
High memory usage.
Every thread required some memory.
Let's say uh, if there are more threads currently running in parallel, they require more memory.
So your application performance degrades.
So we should not use like if you are using your plain Java thread pool executor, then you should not
use add the async.
Simply, you have to use specifically the name so that this gets picked up.
Okay.
I hope this, uh, I know that the answer of this solution, what is the default executor is picked
up by spring is not that straightforward.
So with this three use cases, I told you what is the default behavior and what should be the recommended
solutions to use.
But let's say that.
If you see that by this point of time you say that, hey, I don't want all this confusion, man.
Use case one, use case two, use case three.
In the use case one, I can use directly at the rate of saying.
In use case two, I can also use at the rate a sink, and also at the rate a sink with name like some
name given.
And in the use case three I all mandatory have to use a sink with name.
I don't want my developers to get confused right?
What uh what to follow.
So there is very another simple way.
And this is, I would say that mostly industry standard.
So what it says that I always want to set my executor as default one.
Right.
No matter whether if you use a sink or at the rate a sink name doesn't matter.
Only my executor will get picked up.
Okay, so there is another way.
So another way is that during the configuration class App.config implement a sink configure implement
this class.
Okay.
And once you implement this class you have to override this method.
Get a sink executor.
Now since you have override this mat get a sink Executor.
This is now your thread pool executor.
You can put whether thread pool task executor or you can use thread pool or plain Java thread pool executor.
You can use anything, right?
Return type should be executor either you can use plain Java thread pool executor or thread pool task
executor.
Whatever the now you wanted, you can use it now.
What happened with this is that even if you are using an async right always this will get picked up
so you never have to worry about.
Hey, I am using plain Java here.
Now since I am using plain Java, I have to specifically mention the name.
What is the my thread pool executor name?
Now that worry goes.
Now you don't have to worry about whether plain Java or thread pool task executor spring one.
Now since you have done an override this one.
Now your method gets invoked to decide which executor to use.
Since we have overrided this now, the control will come here and this executor will use and that would
be our default one.
It will always find an executor.
Okay.
And also remember one thing here.
If you are using this approach very very important since this is not a bean.
And here we are creating a new object every time since this this is just an override method.
This is not a bean.
You know that bean by default is singleton.
And here we have to take care of that.
So I have created a private thread pool executor object.
If thread pool executor is null, then only I am creating an object.
If object is already present, then return it.
And I have created this method as synchronized so that if two threads are coming.
Two requests are coming parallelly.
They will get only one object for my thread pool executor.
So only this handling required.
If you are using this.
Okay so this is another industry standard.
So in if you are working in your company you might see this also in like developers are using this right.
So this is also an acceptable way of working.
Implement async configure but take care of the singleton here.
You have to take it manually.
And.
But in the above one add since you are using at the rate been been are by default singleton.
So that is automatically taken care.
So that is one way where you can avoid like I don't have to give name.
What is the use case one.
Use case two use case three.
You will always use at the rate passing and it will always pick your.
executor.
Okay, so this is just an output I showed.
I am using here Java Java thread pool executor.
And even though I am using at the rate async, mine got picked up.
Not simple async task executor.
Okay, do practice it with your hand.
And in the part two I will cover that.
There are some more topics I want to cover in this exception.
Handling async method return type transaction management with async method.
And there are some interview questions so that I will cover in the part two part.
But I hope this is totally clear.
Like answer is not always straightforward like spring boot uses default simple async task executor.
No, there is more to it.
Okay guys, any question?
Please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
We can discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- @Async Annotation  | Important Interview questions ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And in the Spring Boot series till now we have seen how the async annotation works.
Uh today I will I want to discuss more on this async annotation.
I want to cover some important, uh, interview questions also.
So one of the interview question is that what are the conditions for async annotations to work properly.
So there are two conditions which I would say that.
One is that the async annotation where we are using on top of a method, right.
That method should be in a different class from where it is being called.
Right.
So that is one condition.
And second condition is the method on which this async annotation is used.
It should be public method.
Now the question is why.
So now first let's see this example here.
In this we have a class user controller right.
And this is one method Getuser method when this get invoked, it calls an async method test.
Right.
So and one thing you will notice that this async method is in the same class in which this caller is
present.
And expectation is that this async method will get run in a new thread.
That is my expectation because I have used async annotation on top of it.
But will this work as expected?
No.
Why?
Because these are the two conditions which should get fulfilled that this method on which you have used
async annotation should be in a different class from where it is getting called, and it should be a
public method.
Okay.
So this will not work as expected because okay, you have made this method public, but this is in the
same class as of this caller, right from where it is getting called.
It is in the same class.
Okay.
so to make it work properly, you have to, uh, make this method into a different class itself.
So here, if you see the output when I invoke this.
So get user is run by this thread some this thread name.
So I'm printing the thread name http nio something.
And when this method get invoked inside async method test, what is the thread name.
Same right.
But your expectation is that okay, new thread will get created, but no new thread is not get created.
Okay, so we have to have this method in a different class and it should be a public.
Now you can ask me right.
Hey why why we have to in this different class.
See the problem is not here.
The problem is with the framework.
So at back end we are using AOP.
So whenever you are using at the rate a sync annotation AOP get involved right?
If you have seen the AOP video, you might already know that how AOP works.
So first step is it do intercept and once it is intercept it calls the proxy.
And then internally proxy.
Miles might call your method.
So to to make this interception work.
These two conditions is required.
Interception cannot work on private methods.
Protected method it only work on public methods.
And second interception only works when from class one to class two different classes get invoked,
right?
If in the same class you are calling a method, interception would not be able.
Interception is not even in the picture.
So only when you're calling from like you have one method in class one and you are invoking a method
two, which is in class two something.
Then only interception comes into the picture.
So because of this interception logic, you can say that interception has works only when these two
conditions are met.
And because of that, whenever we use annotation these two conditions should be met.
Okay, so this is one thing very important and it's a very good interview question also.
Now another interview question is how async and transaction management works together.
What are the challenges.
So I will explain you with different three use cases.
So use case one.
Let's say that let's understand this use case one.
So I have a class okay.
In this class I am calling user service dot update user.
So it is calling this method.
And here I have put transactional.
When I put a transaction, transaction will get created here.
So now here if you see I am doing some update user status update, first name, user first name, last
name, whatever.
Right.
And here if you see one more thing I am doing is I am calling one more method in a different class.
I want to do update user balance, but instead of doing it here, I am doing it here in a different
class and I say that hey, at the rate async, let's do this in an async manner.
Okay, so see this one again.
This class is invoking this which has at rate transactional and within the transactional method I am
invoking a method which is async.
So what is the problem here?
The problem here is that whenever you are creating a new thread, it do not carry forward the transactional
context.
So transactional context has all the information like okay what is the propagation level.
Right.
And whatever the different information you have put into this transactional right.
Uh, what is the thread pool you are going to use?
And every information which is there in the context that is not even passed here in the new thread.
So this code, this code run without any transaction.
So now let's say that any issue comes in this method all the rollback will happen.
For this you have updated user status.
Rollback will happen.
You have updated first name.
Rollback will happen right.
Whatever.
But here if you are updating the balance amount into this async rollback will not happen.
This because this is not running in a transaction.
okay, so transaction context do not transfer from caller thread to a new thread.
Right.
So this is use case which should be avoided.
It will not work by transaction.
Context is not.
Carry forward to this async method.
Use case to understand this use case.
Now you have this class.
In this class you are invoking a user method.
Now on this user method update user method itself, you have both at the transaction at the rate async.
And you are doing all the operations inside this updating user status, updating first name or whatever,
whatever the update you want it to do.
But you have transactional and at the rate annotation together.
Is there any problem?
So problem is that use with precaution.
When I say use with precaution, I mean first thing.
Okay, a new thread will be created.
A new thread will be created in which this update user will work.
Now since also it has added a transaction so means all this code will run in a transaction only.
Okay.
So if any issue will happen rollback will happen.
But why I mentioned that use with precaution it because because of this arcing the transaction context
will not carry forward.
Now suppose I have also put at the rate transactional here.
Right.
And there are you know that there are different propagation level of transaction supports not supported.
Right.
You already know that we have already seen different type of propagation level is there.
Those will not work as expected.
Right.
Because even though you have are Use transactional and because.
But because of this at the rate async annotation, whatever the transaction context you have set before
that is of that do not get carry forward at all.
So this will run in a new transaction.
Okay.
So that's why I mentioned in a yellow and put that use with precaution as new thread will be created
and have transaction management.
But context is not same as the parent one.
If parent also has a transaction right.
And here I am using that okay.
Propagation is let's say whatever supported right.
So if parent transaction is there use the same one.
Now this will not work as expected.
Right.
So that's why I say that use with precaution because parent transaction context is not carry forward
here because of this async annotation.
This is use case three is the very safe way and most popular way in the industry of using it.
How?
So you have a user controller class here.
If you see that I am calling a method update user.
Now here, if you see that this update user first I have used an async update user.
Now what happen is your main thread is free.
It can proceed further.
It do not have to wait for update user.
Now it created a new thread and now update user.
Now I have called update user in this utility and here I have put at the rate transactional.
So now everything runs in a transaction.
Anything fails rollback will happen.
But what I have make sure that a separate thread is used to do this transactional work and my main thread
is freed totally.
So this is the correct way of using and this is the industry standard.
So whenever any question comes how you will use async annotation with transaction.
Tell them the issue with first doing this transaction and then async or both together.
What are the challenges and which one is the correct way of doing it?
Okay, now another topic is async method return type.
So to understand this properly, please do check out in the Java playlist this video.
Future callable and Completable future.
This already more than one hour video right?
This video I have already covered this in Java.
Multithreading.
Future.
Callable Completable future.
It's one video and I have covered in depth, so covering here doesn't make sense because it's a Java
topic and I have already explained in one hour plus in depth of this.
So check out the Java playlist.
You will get better understanding of this future callable and completable future.
But I will tell you that, uh, how we can use it.
Like by joining it with the spring boot.
So it will make more sense.
So let's say I am using future.
And just for your information, this future is now deprecated.
Now, Completable future is mostly used in the industry.
So here, if you see that.
The thing is, when you are using an async annotation, we know that it will create a new thread, right?
So this is your main thread.
And by async annotation it will create a new thread let's say thread one.
So if you want to retrieve the output of this thread one, whatever the thread one has one work upon
if if you want to get an output right, that's where this future and completable future comes into the
picture, right?
So now here, if you see that this performed task async Method I have put at the rate a sink.
Now it it it has to return a string.
But since it's an a sink, I have wrapped into a future.
So now this is the caller method.
So when this method gets invoked I am calling this perform async task.
A new thread will get invoked which will work and it ultimately return this async result.
Right?
This is a future.
Now in the I can take this result in this one.
Now maybe it will take let's say uh, 15 seconds to complete.
It's okay.
Our main method will just, uh, take a reference of this and continue forward, continue its work.
Now, whenever you will do that on this future object, uh, which you have result dot get.
Now, our main thread will wait here till the output is available.
Now let's say that it is waiting like to get this task completed so it will wait here.
Now our main thread will wait at this point when we do dot get till this method is not completed and
once it is completed it will return.
This dot get will return this string whatever internally.
Right.
And you can print it.
So this is one way of returning from an async method.
If you have a return type you can use future.
So this like this is one of the method get.
There are so many methods like get done is canceled or write and get with the timeout that I have covered
in the Java video in depth what all functionality you can do.
So that is out of scope for this video, but this is just to provide how you can use it in this way.
Similarly Completablefuture, which was introduced in Java eight.
The similar way you can say that complete completablefuture is just an enhanced version of future.
So here in this method, now instead of future, I am returning completablefuture the same no code change.
Here it is invoking it.
It is just taking a reference of this Completablefuture.
Now main thread can continue its work without stopping.
Now at this time when you are doing get it will wait.
Wait for whom?
Wait for this method to actually get completed.
Once it completed, it will get its output.
This one and you can print it.
Okay.
So do check out this video to get a better understanding of Completablefuture.
Completablefuture is very, very important and it's not like five ten minutes topic.
You will see an in-depth discussion how the chaining happens in this one supplier saying there are a
lot of chaining is very good capability of compatible future.
Do check it out.
Okay.
Another important interview question is exception handling.
Why important?
I will tell you one interview question here is okay you have an async method which returns void.
Let's say method one which do not return anything.
Now since you have used at the async, it is going to run in a different method.
Now if any exception comes here, how you gonna handle that.
Because your main method you have already you have invoked this and you have proceed further.
You have proceed further.
But if any exception comes into this new thread, how you gonna handle it?
That is very important.
Interview question.
So I'll tell you this one.
But the first is very simple method which has return type.
You know how to handle it.
So whenever you are doing dot get.
This is the time.
If there is any exception in this async method, it will throw at this point of time when you do dot
get.
So at this point of time you have invoked the you have you have invoked the async method.
Now main method.
Proceed further.
Now if any exception comes only when main method do dot get.
At this point of time, it will throw an exception and you can catch it and handle it like you want
it.
You want to log it, log it, you want to print it, print it or whatever you want.
You want to throw exception, throw it.
So this is very, very simple.
When the method has a return type, we can have a completable future or future reference.
And using get we can catch it.
But this is where the interesting things lies method which do not return anything.
So I have a method which returns white and this is calling this method.
Now, if any exception comes here, let's say I am trying to do one divided by zero.
Some exception comes here.
How this main thread because main thread has just invoked it and proceed further.
Now how I will handle this exception, how I will do logging or how I will make sure that some exception
gets thrown.
So there are two ways to handle it.
One is use a try catch block inside this async.
So here if you see you will perform some task.
Now if any exception comes you will catch it.
So the catch is within this method itself async method.
So you will catch this and handle the exception.
Here.
You want to log it just log it right.
But I'll tell you what is the industry uh what is industry follows.
And I am thinking this is the better way to handle it, rather than putting trycatch into the each and
every async method.
So what happens?
So before I'm telling you this, this see this one is Spring Boot Framework code.
So Spring Boot has created one class internally simple async uncaught exception handler which implement
this interface async uncaught exception handler.
And it has one method handle uncaught exception and it will just log it.
Unexpected exception occurred invoking async method.
So now let's say that I have this method async method.
And it is.
Let's say I purposely doing this five divided by zero.
So we know that it's going to throw an exception.
So now I don't have any trycatch here.
So what would happen is spring boot, this method, this class get invoked.
So simple async code exception handler, which is a child of this interface handle uncaught exception
will get invoked and it will print.
This unexpected exception occurred.
Unexpected exception occurred invoking async method.
And this is the method name.
And this is the exception which it prints.
So it prints the complete exception and also the method name.
But you can say that hey I this is I don't want this I want custom handling.
I want my custom handling where I might have different logic than just doing this.
So now you got one hint that if Spring Boot can implement this, why not we and do our custom.
So that's what the solution is.
So here we create one class.
I have created this default async uncaught handler which implement this async uncaught exception handler
and I have override this method, handle uncaught exception.
And here I am doing like in default I've just printed.
You can handle it like you want right?
So this is the default handling which I wanted when any exception occur in an async thread.
Okay.
So this is I created.
But I need to make sure that my this this class get invoked.
How you can make sure that.
So in this app configuration class you just need to implement this async configure.
And what you have to do is in this method you have to return this object right.
This async caught exception handler.
So I have done auto wired and this object, this class.
So now when you have done auto wired, you know right.
What Spring Boot will try to do is spring boot will try to see that.
Hey, if there are any been present for this one.
So see here I have created one class with at the rate component you can have in this or in this class,
or in a different class also.
But here I have at the rate component on this one.
Right.
So bean is already created.
So this will get set here.
And whenever in the spring boot it will do get sync uncaught exception handler.
It will return this one.
So mine will get return.
So you got this part.
How you can configure your own custom exception handler in case of.
Method where return type is void for an async annotation, right?
Just check this out.
The flow.
This is very simple, you just have to override one and this bean will be get initialized here because
we have done auto and we just have to return it whenever means spring is asking, we are returning this
one.
Okay.
And here if you run this five divided by zero, you will see that in default uncaught exception method
which I printed, not the spring one.
So in the spring one I have put empty app.config just for showing that if if you don't handle yourself,
spring will take care of it.
Okay, so based upon your business requirement, either go for implementing the default or you can use
try catch like depending upon your business requirement.
Okay.
So these are some important interview questions of the async which I wanted to cover today.
And we'll see you in the next topic of Spring Boot.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: Custom Interceptors ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept Encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the Spring Boot video we are going to cover the custom interceptors right.
Very very important topic because in future whatever the topics we are going to cover caching, logging,
authentication.
We might have to write our own custom interceptors.
So before we touch those topics this has to be pretty clear.
So what is interceptor actually?
Uh, so I would say in a very simple words it's a mediator which get invoked before or after your actual
code.
Right.
So this is what we can say as an interceptor.
So this is the two prerequisite video I would like to suggest.
And the links I will give you in the description section that this is the Java Inside this Java playlist
you will get this annotation video in depth and in the spring playlist itself.
I hope that if you are watching this video, you are following the sequence and AOP you have already
covered.
Okay.
With that being said, let's start with the Custom interceptors.
So now the first is we have to write a custom interceptor for request before even reaching to a specific
controller class, right?
So now let's say that take this example, very very simple example I have taken a user controller.
I have written one controller Rest controller user controller.
It has one method which I have put get mapping annotation.
And the path I have given is get user.
But I want some custom interceptor Before even my controller get invoked.
Now, if you remember the very, very first video of the Spring Boot playlist intro introduction there,
I showed you this diagram, right?
So when the request actually comes right, first it goes to the servlet container right where our application
is deployed.
Then we have something called dispatcher servlet.
So dispatcher servlet is one which is responsible right okay.
With the request which is coming which controller it should assign to.
So it will choose the controller also okay.
So now we want a custom interceptor before reaching to our controller.
So means somewhere dispatcher servlet.
And this uh invoking the controller method we our code of custom interceptor should get invoked.
Okay.
So let's see that how can be done.
So let's say that this is one user controller I have created.
Very very basic only has one get method get user.
And uh this is the custom interceptor I have created.
So I have created a public class, my custom interceptor.
And I have annotated with at the rate component means spring will take care of its, uh, been creation.
Now here, if you see, I have implemented with the handler interceptor.
So when you implement it with the handler interceptor, you have to provide an implementation for this
three methods pre handle, post handle and after completion okay.
So pre handle is like before even your user controller method get invoked.
This will get executed.
After that your actual code will get executed means your user controller will get invoked.
And once your actual code get invoked then post handle will get executed.
And after that after completion will get executed.
Okay, so this is the three methods, which is are the meaning.
So you can ask me right.
Hey what is the difference between post handle and after completion?
Both is getting executed after my controller I will tell you, but for now.
Just consider this one.
If you have implements the handler interceptor, we have to provide an implementation of this three
depending upon our needs, like how we wanted what we wanted to do in this.
Okay, now we have to register this interceptor like for which API it has to invoke.
So how to do that?
In our configuration class Appconfig, we have to implement web MVC configure.
Inside that we have to override this method add interceptor.
And inside this method we have to do a registry.
So this is the parameter it accept registry.
Inside this we have to add our interceptor.
Hey this is my custom interceptor.
So here if you see that I have already done add the rate component right.
So means been is already created.
That's why I am just doing at the rate auto wired here.
If if I am not writing it at the rate component, you know what?
It has to be done at the rate been here and creating a new object here.
Okay.
So currently I'm doing at the rate auto wired because at the rate component is there, so been would
be created and that would get auto wired here.
So now coming back again to this method first in the registry we have to add the interceptor.
And we have to provide what is the custom interceptor we have to invoke.
Then this two is like first add path pattern for what all URLs.
We have to invoke this custom interceptor.
So it's a pattern.
So it's a comma separated list right.
So what I have given is slash API slash stress.
Any like slash API slash get user any API right.
Asterisk can be replaced with anything it will get.
This custom interceptor will get invoked.
Now here is one more uh field is exclude path patterns.
So if there are certain paths which you have to exclude out of this, you can specifically mention this
and it can get excluded.
Uh, so here I have mentioned slash API slash update user.
So that would now be excluded.
And also delete user also will get excluded.
Okay.
For rest other this interceptor will get applied okay.
So the changes are clear right.
We have to first provide our custom interceptor where we will override this uh methods by implementing
the handler interceptor.
And we will provide like what exactly we wanted.
Okay.
And then we have to configure our custom interceptor like this.
So this is for like when before even our controller get invoked.
Now here if you see if I am opening here.
Dispatcher.
Servlet.
So here, if you see that it is inside your spring web MVC right.
And it is there dispatcher servlet dot class.
We are inside our dispatcher servlet dot class.
So in this one if you see us do dispatch okay.
So this is actually dispatch.
So here it will do is first apply the pre handle.
So when it says that apply the pre handle means it first it will based on this it will invoke this pre
handle.
After that it will call handle.
So this is the place where actually your controller will get invoked.
This is the place your actual controller will get invoked.
So now means your controller get invoked.
Now your code will get executed.
Now see difference between post handle and after completion.
So now your controller get executed.
After it's completed it is running the post handle, right?
Okay, so it makes sense post.
So after your controller, this code will get executed.
Now what about this after.
So this after is like say that whether it's a success or even if there is exception after completion
will run.
So if there are any exception, your post will not get executed, but after will be.
So I think it's similarly like finally in Java, right?
So no matter, even if there is an exception after completion will run.
So this is success.
So whenever so pre handle run after pre handle your controller then post.
And after that this success here inside it is also running after Okay, so during success also it will
run and if there is any exception also it will run after.
Okay, so I hope the difference is clear between post handle and after completion.
So now here if you see if I run this get user.
If I hit this get user API.
So I have added in the path param slash API slash.
So anything.
So it's this custom interceptor should invoke.
And it is also not excluded.
So first it goes inside pre handle.
Then it invoke my controller.
So controller is doing something okay.
Then after that it goes out post handle.
And after that completion even though it's a success.
Okay so this is how you do when you have to intercept the request before reaching to a specific controller
class.
Okay.
It it would be helpful in so many use cases.
Authentication authorization will see that later part.
But this should be clear.
Like how to intercept the calls before call reach to the controller.
Now the second part is I want to have a custom interceptor for request after reaching to a specific
controller class.
So now the my controller has been invoked and now it is invoking particular methods or something.
Now I want my custom interceptor.
So now we'll see that how to do that.
So I will break it down into two steps.
The step one is creation of custom annotation.
Okay.
So how do you create a first custom annotation.
We can create custom annotation using the keyword at the rate interface.
Okay.
So this is an example where if you see I am creating my custom annotation.
So I am using keyword at the rate interface.
And I can give whatever name I like for my annotation.
I have given the name my custom annotation.
Okay, so now this annotation I can use like this.
Like you are using like at the rate override at the rate something like Rest controller, request controller
at the rate get mapping.
Similarly.
Now this is my I have created annotation.
So I'm using at the rate my custom annotation okay so currently what it will do.
Nothing.
I have just created an annotation.
We will see how to make use of this annotation.
But this is one way we can create our annotation.
Now very very two important meta annotation property, which we have to understand, right?
If you go through this one right, you will find totally in depth one.
But here I'm just setting up the context, which is very, very important to understand this.
So this two meta annotation has to be clear very well.
One is at the right target.
So meta means annotation which are applied over an annotation.
Okay.
So don't worry we will I will tell you how.
So here at the target meta annotation means this meta annotation tells where we can apply the particular
annotation right on a method or a class or constructor, etc..
Let's see this example.
So I am creating my custom annotation using a keyword at the interface.
I am creating my custom annotation whatever I like.
Now this annotation, I will.
I should apply it over method, over class, over constructor.
What all so using at the rate target meta annotation I can specify this.
So here at the target I said that element type dot method.
So means over method only.
You can use this annotation if you have more than one places you want to use it.
You can tell it like this.
Like an array element type dot constructor.
You can use this annotation.
My custom annotation which I have created.
You can use it over constructor, over method, over parameters or over fields also.
Right.
So there are many ways we can, uh, tell that hey, yes, this annotation you can use at all this places.
So this is the purpose of target meta annotation.
Right?
And I and I think you already got it.
Why it's called meta annotation means it is used over an annotation.
So this is one of my annotation.
My custom annotation.
So this at the rate target is used over a annotation.
And another is at the rate retention.
This meta annotation tells how the particular annotation will be stored in Java.
So these are the three values.
One is retention policy.
Dot source annotation will be discarded by compiler itself, and it's not even recorded in dot class
file.
Right.
So here if you see this example I have created an annotation at the rate interface, my custom annotation
target I have given that okay used it over a method.
But what is the retention I have given retention policy dot source okay, so this annotation I am using
in a.
I have created a class user and I have a method update user over that.
I am using it.
Okay, so it's valid, but when I am converting I am doing let's say Java C now this Java class.
Now converting it to a byte code, let's say dot class file.
Now in the dot class file.
Since I am using source, it will not.
This annotation will not get converted or not carry forward in the dot class file.
So here if you see there is no annotation, and if you see at the rate override annotation right.
Actually it is source.
So it is just for the readability of the engineers.
But it do not add any value.
It even not even convert it to our byte code.
Okay.
So annotation will be discarded by compiler itself and it's not even recorded in dot class file.
There is another retention policies class annotation will be recorded in dot class file but ignored
by JVM during runtime.
So if you use dot class.
Then here during this dot class file you might see at the rate my custom annotation.
But will it add any value?
Nothing, right?
Because JVM during runtime will not even consider it and it totally ignore write it.
So you can say that it's uh, in the bytecode even though it's added, but JVM will not even consider
it.
And there is something called dot runtime annotation will be recorded in dot class file and also available
during runtime.
So now here for this one only we can write some custom logic that hey, during your code is running
during runtime, you can fetch the annotation and do something based on that.
Okay, so here if you see an example I have creating my annotation.
My custom annotation uses the keyword at the right interface.
Target is method and retention is runtime.
And I am using this annotation over this method which is inside a user class.
Now I converted it to a dot class file here.
If you see now here.
If you see that it get inside a dot class file and even during the runtime.
Also I can even do reflection and read hey, this method has any annotation.
If yes, do this something, we'll see that.
But these three are the retention policies.
So whenever we are creating our custom annotation right we have to provide what is the target and what
is the retention.
So this two like we have to provide now one more very very important part when we will write our interceptors.
Right.
We have to uh, you can say that add some information for a particular method.
Right.
So how to in the annotation my custom annotation how I can send certain information.
So there are fields also.
So we can create a custom annotation with methods which is more like a field.
And inside this field we can add value.
So here this methods which we are going to write has no parameter no body first.
Second thing is return type is very very restricted to primitive int boolean double.
So there are total eight primitive types.
So it is limited to primitive types.
You can use a string.
You can use enum.
You can use like class, type class, whether it should be a string dot class, whatever dot class.
Right.
But should be dot class right?
Annotations or an array of above.
You can say string array int array boolean array that also can be used right.
Why?
Why there is a restriction if if something is going in your in your mind like hey because C annotations
are very lightweight right?
We have to keep it very, very restricted because we don't want to expand its use cases and all.
So that's why this only return types are allowed and how to do that.
I am writing my own custom annotation, my custom annotation with at the rate interface keyword.
I have used at the target at the detention.
Now here if you see I want one value, let's say.
Key.
So here, if you see that this method doesn't have any return type and uh, not any parameter and return
type is string, which is allowed one.
Right.
And you can provide a default value for this is like like default default key name.
Now in this class over this method, when I'm using this annotation I can pass certain information like
this.
For this key value is user key for this method.
User key.
Now wherever my interceptor will catch it up, it can get this value.
Also from this annotation we will see tell you how, but for now you can say that when you write a custom
annotation we can pass certain value like this.
And when we write our own interceptor right during caching, during logging.
This feature gonna help us a lot because we always have to pass certain information during interceptors.
So this is one example I showed you.
Like with more fields, like I am writing my custom annotation at the interface.
This now I have just for demoing purpose I am written one method like int key I.
I don't call it a method, I will call it a field.
Mostly it's a field only generally, but this is the way of representing it inside this one.
So int key no parameter return type is n string.
Return type is a string.
Default value.
You can give anything here I have given zero class type key.
So this is the return type default I have written a string dot class enum key.
So you can create any enum.
So default value is this and return type is enum only string array key.
So you can return string array Default value.
You can return any array of the string similarly.
Like this.
And in the class when you are using this, you can use my custom annotation which you have created.
Now you can pass certain value int key.
I am passing ten string key string right?
So I am passing some user class type key.
I am passing user dot class enum key.
I am passing some another enum.
So you got it right.
We can pass certain values in this annotation.
So you can say that these are mostly fields.
And we are just filling the values of these fields.
And you can provide a default method like here inside that itself.
So at this point of time you should be clear that how to create a custom annotation.
Now you can write your custom annotation like at the rate I can even create at the rate shreyansh.
So at this point we should be clear like how to create.
Now the second part is creating our custom interceptors.
So now here, if you see what I am doing here I am creating a user controller class.
Very very simple class.
I having one method get user which is with this path get mapping.
This is the path and this is invoking this user.
This is invoking this user class okay.
Uh annotated with at the rate component.
Beans.
Beans is created by spring.
It has one method called get user.
Now here if you see that get user I have annotated with my at the rate custom annotation.
So this is the custom annotation I have created.
Now we already know how to create right?
And only one name string default value is empty.
So name I can provide news.
Okay, so this is the custom annotation I have given over the get user.
Now I want to write my interceptor.
Okay, if you have seen the AOP video you can easily get it.
How to write an interceptor.
Now I am writing.
I am creating a class.
My custom interceptor at the write component tells that bin should be created by spring at the rate
expect means that this class will be considered as an interceptor, where will have a pointcut and advice.
Okay, so now I am writing one method.
If if you get a doubt, what is pointcut?
What advice?
I would say stop here itself.
Please check out the AOP video and then come back.
Otherwise it will create you the confusion because we have already discussed the pointcut and advice
in depth in AOP.
So now here if you see that this method I am providing one point card at the rate annotation.
So what?
At the rate annotation you remember, you can you recall it will look for this annotation which we have
provided.
So com concept encoding dot learning spring boot dot custom interceptor.
So this is the path where I have created this my custom annotation.
Right.
So this is the path for this my custom annotation.
This one.
This one my custom annotation.
So at the annotation means hey run this advice, run this advice or this method when whenever you see
this annotation.
My custom annotation okay.
So now here if you see from here this class user controller.
I am controlling.
I am calling this.
This class.
User class.
This method from user controller I am calling user class and now this method has annotation at the rate
my custom annotation.
So what it will do is it will intercept it and how intercept will work in the AOP.
I have already showed you that.
What how internally the proxy get involved and what would happen.
So.
But because of this point card we can tell that okay listen to this annotation.
And once you find this annotation okay.
Like when a particular method is invoked and that method is annotated with that annotation specific
annotation I have to run this advice.
So here if you see that it is like at the rate around means before, then your code and then after.
So here, do something before actual method.
Now see this what I am doing here.
Now I have a join point.
Right from this join point I can take out a method.
Okay.
This method write all the metadata information about this method I can get what is the return type?
What is the parameter is this method has any annotation?
All this thing I can do.
So now that's the same thing I am doing.
Hey this method is annotation present this my custom annotation.
If this is present true then what I am doing is.
From this method I am taking out this annotation details.
So now I am getting this annotation detail and see that from this annotation I can read out this dot
name.
Okay, it will print user.
Okay.
And after that I have done some pre work.
I just did printing and after that it called proceed.
And you know that when it called proceed what it happen.
Our actual method will get invoked.
This get the user detail and after once it done it will do something after actual method.
So now if you run this what would happen is it will print do something before actual method.
So this got printed after that.
Uh, when it try to invoke this right when it tried to invoke this method get user okay.
So because of this pointcut it goes here it print this.
And here if you see that yes, this method is annotated with my custom annotation.
So it will uh annotation present true.
It will get the annotation and it will name from annotation.
It will print user.
And then ultimately it will call the method get the user details and after that do something after actual
method.
So we have created our one interceptor.
Okay.
So both the interceptors I have are told you if we want to have a interceptor before even the controller,
how we can do that.
Right.
And if we want after the controller, like any particular method or annotation.
Right.
We have to return an interception.
How?
How we can do that.
Okay.
So practice this out a lot because in future videos we might have to write few interceptors.
Uh, because that's the that's very much required for logging, for caching, for authentication, authorization,
everything.
Okay guys, any doubts?
Feel free to, uh, comment.
Uh, we will discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: Filters Vs Interceptors ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to concept encoding.
This is Shreyansh.
So yesterday I made a video on Springboot interceptors.
And I see a lot of comments regarding.
Filters versus interceptors.
And what is filters specifically.
Uh, so I what I anticipated from this is that there are a lot of doubts between when to use filter,
when to use interceptor.
What is the exact difference.
So today I will discuss, uh, about this.
And I hope that after this video your doubts will get clarified.
And like you can easily decide when to go for filter.
When to go for interceptor.
Okay, let's start without wasting any time.
So let's before even seeing further.
Right.
Let's see this one liner definition.
Right.
And even though if you don't understand any of these terms, it's okay.
Because once we go further after that we will come back again.
And then we read this.
It will make more sense.
So filter it.
Intercept the HTTP request and response before they reach to the servlet.
Okay.
And what is interceptor says?
It's specific to spring framework and intercept HTTP request and response before they reach to the controller.
Or I would say that before they reach to the controller and after servlet.
Okay, so read it one more time.
It filter intercept the HTTP request and response before the request.
Reach to the servlet and interceptor is after servlet but before controller.
Okay so just keep this in mind and we'll proceed further.
This two definition will get clear soon.
So if you remember this diagram which I have discussed in the first video of Spring boot discussion,
and in yesterday also in the, uh, interceptor video.
So we know that right?
When a request comes in, our servlet container catches it and it will pass it to one of the servlet.
So in Spring Boot, we have a dispatcher servlet dispatcher servlet takes care of couple of things right.
Which controller this request should go right.
And it will create an instance and it will ultimately invoke that controller.
Okay.
So this is I hope it's clear.
But now let's see this one.
I have further drilled down this diagram to understand the filter and interceptor more.
When the request comes in.
So here if you say when the request comes in it goes to our servlet container.
In that case let's say Tomcat.
Now when the Tomcat or servlet container get this HTTP request What it will do is before assigning to
a servlet.
Particular servlet, our filter comes into the picture.
We can have multiple filter.
Filter one.
Filter two.
It's generally called as a chain of filters.
Right.
So after filter one filter two will run.
If there are more filters that will run.
And after that one of the specific servlet will get involved.
Right.
Now let's say that if we are running a spring boot then dispatcher servlet will get invoked.
And this dispatcher servlet.
Now here is our interceptor.
So before this dispatcher servlet handles the request to controller our interceptors comes into the
picture here.
So with this diagram now you should see that where the filter lies in and where the interceptors lies
in.
So filter lies in Listen before the request handed over to Soviet and interceptors lies before the request
handed over to controllers.
Okay, so now with this one, few doubts might have come to your mind that, hey, first of all, what
is Soviet?
Is it possible that more than one Soviet is there?
Let me tell you about this one.
So what happened is, first of all, what is Soviet?
Okay, sublet is nothing but a Java class which accepts the incoming request, process it and returns
the response.
Okay.
So in you can say that it is a play, like a plain Java code itself.
It's our business logic sublet.
Its purpose is that whatever the requests coming in process it and return the response also.
Okay.
That's what sublet is, You remember that, uh, if you have worked in monolithic services.
Right.
Let's say that we have Rest APIs.
Also, we have Soap APIs.
Also.
We have something called expose API for file uploading multiple different tasks.
So what we can do is we can write different servlets for this.
So I can create one servlet which handles only Rest APIs.
I can create another servlet which handles Soap APIs.
I can create another servlet which can handle only file uploads.
So multiple.
Or you can say that you can create one more servlets which handle only static data like images or something.
Okay.
So when the request comes to the servlet container it decide that hey this request will be handled by
which which servlet.
So each servlet can configure that.
hey, this rest API.
Let's say that this can configure the hey I can handle slash API slash star.
So anything which starts with slash API, I can handle it.
Okay.
Similarly soap API can provide some configuration.
Which servlet container will use and decide which servlet to invoke.
Now in the microservices right.
And now let's say that when we are discussing about spring boot specific and it's a microservice, let's
say that it's not a monolithic where I have a static data also and something Soap API's and all.
So now when you say that when we discuss more about microservices and specifically Spring Boot, so
there the need of multiple servlets are reduced.
In 20 1716 when we used to code we used to have multiple servlet.
And this is servlets are nothing but a plain Java code right?
So whatever the controller you are writing is just like a specific APIs like this is let's say slash
API slash user, another controller slash API slash let's say order.
But here this servlet accept anything slash API star.
So anything start with slash API.
This dispatcher servlet will take care of it earlier.
We don't use to have this controller in this servlet itself.
We used to have all the code logic and we have factory here okay.
If it is user go and perform this logic.
If it is order go and perform this logic.
Okay.
So what I mean to say here is that now when we are specifically doing microservices and spring boot,
the need of multiple servlets has been reduced.
So mostly our dispatcher servlet, if you see the default configuration is slash slash asterisk means
mean anything?
Any API dispatcher servlet would be able to handle.
So whatever the request coming is to the Tomcat, if Tomcat sees that okay request is started with slash
and anything, it will just pass it to the dispatcher servlet dispatcher servlet will pass it to one
of the controller.
Okay.
So now you know what is servlet.
Okay.
And this is when I show that we can create multiple servlet.
If we want servlet one I can configure it to rest API.
Servlet two can be configured for Soap API's.
Similarly dispatcher servlet.
Default is slash this.
Okay.
And today if even if you want hey dispatcher servlet I only want to handle slash API slash stress that
also you can do.
Okay I won't go further into that how you can do it.
But in the at the configuration class itself you can do that.
You can update this configuration to this and only only those APIs will come to a dispatcher servlet.
Not all.
So with this diagram, at least now we are clear that filter is before the request, get assigned to
a particular servlet, and interceptor is after one of the servlet is assigned specifically.
So this is very, very, uh, spring related part.
So if I just, uh, pick a red color, I would say that this is very, very specific to spring framework.
So interceptor is you can say that two two points, one is after the servlet is chosen.
And which servlet specifically spring boot.
So dispatcher servlet is very very specific for spring boot.
So interceptor is nothing but a spring boot concept which I would say.
So once the spring boot servlet which is dispatcher servlet is chosen.
So then before this dispatcher servlet, assign the request to the controller intercept intercept it.
And for filter you can say that before the servlet container, assign the request to one of the servlet
before that itself filters comes into the picture.
So now you are clear that when to use filter whenever you want to put a logic which is common for all
the servlets like spring boot security like spring boot.
Security.
So spring boot security is uses filter because it is applied all HTTP requests and response and irrespective
of the servlets because it's a very, very generic code, it's not very specific to our application
or something.
So it can be applied to multiple servlets also.
So that's why it uses a filter.
So it lies in this area.
Okay.
And whenever you want something specific to your application particular subnet.
Okay.
I want let's say this dispatcher subnet.
So let's say that call this as a rest API servlet.
If anything is specific to Rest API servlet then you can add interceptor for this.
Okay.
So you got it.
Anything is specific to a particular servlet.
You can use interceptor anything which is common for all the servlets you can use filter.
Okay.
So this is what I have explained it here.
So filter is used when we want to intercept HTTP request and response and logic agnostic of the underlying
servlets.
We can have many filters and have ordering between them.
You can provide an ordering which one to run in which orders.
Similarly, in intercept is used when we want to intercept HTTP request and response same, and add
logic specific to a particular servlet.
In this case, interceptor is mostly a spring boot concept.
You can say that.
So we can say that specific to a spring boot servlet dispatcher servlet.
So it intercept it, whatever the request is coming.
Servlet container whatever the request is coming to dispatcher servlet.
Let's say out of many let's assume that there are many servlet.
So whatever it is coming to dispatcher servlet.
This interceptor will only take care intercept that only it can't intercept servlet to a request right.
So that's what I mean here specific to a particular servlet.
We can have many interceptors and have ordering between them two also.
This is also possible.
We can have more than one interceptors also.
I will tell you how you can have.
So here multiple interceptors and it's ordering how to write it.
So in previous video, I already told you how you can add one interceptor I showed you by creating one
custom inter interceptor and there we discussed about pre handle post handle after completion.
Okay.
So here I will show you how you can add more than one interceptor and ordering also.
So here if you see that one more thing is the pre handle.
So pre handle is something which returns true or false right.
This post handle returns void after completion.
Returns void.
This pre handle returns true and false.
So if pre handle return false.
Next filter and controller will not get invoked.
So here in the code itself we can check.
So here if you see the what was that dispatcher servlet apply pre handle.
If pre handle return false this become true and it will just simply return okay.
Your next your next controller and next or not.
Next filter, next controller and next interceptor will not get invoked itself.
So how to create?
How to add more than one interceptor.
So now let's say that from the previous video you already know that how to create one interceptor.
Similarly I have created another interceptor and I have auto wired here and from previous video you
also know that how to register it.
Similarly, you can also add one more time registry dot add interceptor.
You can add the second one also, and you see that this sequence is actually followed.
So since you added my custom interceptor fun, my custom interceptor two.
So this interceptor would be executed first.
This would be executed second.
So now you have interceptor one.
Interceptor two.
So when the request comes in so request goes like this.
And response goes like this.
So this is your request.
And this is your response.
So when the request comes in what it goes one interceptor one request and then interceptor two.
And when the response goes out.
So response what you will see interceptor two will get invoked first then interceptor one because interceptor
two interceptor one like this.
Okay.
So here I am showing you the output.
Right.
So only I have put a catalog in pre handle post handle and after completion.
So here if you see when the request comes in.
So this is the order is maintained.
So interceptor one it is going first.
So first it will go inside pre handle pre handle of interceptor one.
So request is coming right.
So interceptor one then interceptor two.
So interceptor one then pre handle of interceptor two.
Right?
Then your code logic, then your code logic.
Now it has to response goes out right then post handle of interceptor two.
First post handle of interceptor one.
Similarly, after completion of two and then one.
And ultimately it goes out okay.
So this is how the sequence is maintained.
And how to add filter.
You can add your filters also like here.
If you see either Jakarta Dot servlet you can use or here in the Java X dot you will find filter.
You can choose any of this library.
So I am creating my filter one.
Implement this filter so it has three method in it do filter and destroy.
So in it like uh once the object of this my filter is get created, This method is get invoked only
one time.
If you have to initialize something generally I've never seen via.
I have specifically initialized something.
But even if.
Let's say you want to set up some name or something, you want to specifically initialize something
in this, you can do that, right?
But this is the main part do filter.
So do filter is like do something before you process the request.
So this is like do filter right next here if there are multiple filter filter one.
Filter two filter three.
So currently let's say this my filter one.
After that when you do do filter it will just call the next thing.
If the next part is filter two, it will call it.
If the next part is let's say code logic itself, no more filter, then code logic will get invoked,
right?
And the similar behavior is maintained in the filter also.
So when the request comes in it goes in here.
Filter one, filter two, filter three, and the.
When the response goes out, it goes into reverse.
Filter three.
Filter two.
Filter one.
So do filter is nothing but process the rest of the code.
If you are at filter one, the process next of the code is filter two.
If you are filter two, next code is filter three.
If filter three, next is your actual code logic and then reverse.
So this is the after processing it.
Similarly, I have added another filter my filter two implements filter the same thing.
I have just putted the logic my filter two inside process it something my filter two complete here.
My filter one is there okay, now this is the configuration.
So here I am creating a bean of my filter.
My first filter.
In this I am doing its registration.
So this is the process how you can create an object of registration bean be.
You can set the filter.
So I am creating a new object because here if you see that I am not putting at the rate component,
otherwise I don't have to create a new object.
So I am creating an object.
What is the filter?
This filter can take care of what all URL.
So I have put slash asterisk right and I have set the specific order two.
So just specifically purposely I have given that order two for the filter one and for filter two, I
have specifically given the order one, just to show you that, uh, through this order we can maintain
the sequence.
Similarly, I created a second filter.
So I have created an object of a registration bin.
Set the filter for this okay.
My filter two what all added what all for this specific URL pattern.
This filter will get invoked and the order I have kept it one.
And I have written this registration bin.
That's all.
Now when you see the output.
So now you have filter two and then filter one because its order is one for the filter two.
Right.
And this order is two.
I have specifically purposely mentioned this.
So now when the request comes in first it will invoke filter two and then filter one.
And during the response reverse my filter two inside.
So first it goes here my inside this one.
Then it will go.
What it would happen is it will go inside this my filter two inside and do do filter process.
Rest of the code.
Now the process.
Rest of the code.
Here there is more filter.
Yes.
Filter one.
So it will goes to the next filter.
My filter is filter one inside.
Now this filter one it goes inside printed.
This do filter means processed.
Next of the code.
No more filters.
Code logic will run.
Hitting.
So this is my business logic.
Code logic.
Now the response goes out.
So first it will goes out of this my filter one completed.
And then after that it will goes out of my filter two completed.
Okay.
So this is how you can create filter.
And if you add both interceptors.
So if you add both the logic from the above one right.
And you run the output here, if you see this would happen.
So your is like a servlet container, then filter, then servlet and then controller.
So here you have uh this is your filter.
And then this will be your interceptor.
So first filter will run my filter one.
So I have just here by doing that I just change the order properly?
Filter one I have changed the order to one and filter two I change the order to two just so that it
meant it.
Don't confuse like filter one y second.
So I've corrected the order here.
So now when the request to filter one filter two.
Then here we have interceptor one, interceptor two.
So now request coming is inside filter one.
Then it goes inside filter two.
Right after filter two.
Uh there is no more filters.
So it will pass it to one of the servlet and after the servlet.
So this is your code logic here.
So after.
So this is your servlet now servlet before it passed to the controller it will goes to the interceptor
one.
Right.
So inside pre handle of interceptor one.
Now request goes to interceptor two.
Now ultimately your code logic, your controller.
Now the response goes out.
Right.
So first interceptor two will get invoked.
Right.
So this is all your interceptor.
So post handle of interceptor two.
Post handle of interceptor one.
Then after completion of interceptor two after completion of interceptor one, ultimately filter two
and ultimately filter one and goes out.
So you got it.
Like how the sequence generally maintain.
What's the difference between filter and interceptor and when to use it?
See, if somebody says that, hey, you can change the header.
You can change the request.
You can change the response.
You can change it into interceptor.
Also you can change it into filter also.
But when to use right.
Interceptor also has access to request and response.
Filter also has access to request and response, but the only thing is what specific purpose you are
using.
If it is generic, no matter about servlets, different different servlets use it at filter.
If it is very specific to.
You can say that the spring framework and very, very specific to your one particular servlet.
Then go for interceptor.
Okay I hope this clarifies, but if there is any out we can discuss further and we'll see what question
can come in.
I'll try to answer those.
And if you have any more additional information about this that hey, in this scenario, filter is better
than interceptor or this I don't consider filter or interceptor is better or not.
Both are totally different.
Both are totally different at different places.
But still, if you have such points, we can further discuss more on that.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- HATEOAS for REST APIs ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in Spring Boot I will be covering Hateoas RESTful APIs.
Yeah weird name right.
And even if you see its full form, like its full form says that hypermedia as the engine of application
state, we are right.
So before we start, if you search over the internet and you will see that, hey, is it still popular?
You will see many feedback which says that nowadays companies are not using it.
It has so many disadvantages.
Don't use it.
But I would say that.
Hey guys, welcome to reality!
Hateoas is being used in very big product companies today also, right?
And I will not only tell you what how not to use it, but also tell how to use it, what advantage it
adds.
It tells the client what the next action you can perform after a particular step.
Let's understand this with this example.
So here in this simple example, let's say that I have reached to this step using a post API slash ad
user.
I am able to add a user, but with.
Currently it's unverified.
Now what's the next step?
I can do the next step.
I, after adding a user I can do is I can make a get call and get the details of this user.
I can even delete this that also I can do or I can even verify this user.
Right.
So verify again has different ways.
So you can say that after verifying uh there are different ways to verify one is through SMS.
So when I say that SMS verify start, let's say that you get some Pin code and which you might have
to enter through, which you will finish it.
So different API for start, Different API for finished.
Similarly, for email verify start where you will get a email has been sent to user that hey, this
is the code, now you have to push it somewhere.
So you will actually finishing your email verify.
So this is a small use case which I have come up with.
And I will tell you why it is important to understand when we will see when not to use and when to use
it.
But you get it right when I say that, it tells the client what's the next action you can perform after
particular step.
So this is one step.
And what is the next action after adding a user, either you can do a get call.
Either you can delete it or either you can verify it.
These are the next action you can do.
Okay.
And we will see more details.
But let's see that how the response looks like.
So now let's say that I am using a post API to add a user.
Now the response of it.
If you are not using a hateoas link, how it gonna look like?
So this is the response you will get when you add a particular user.
You got a user ID okay, this ID is representing a unique ID in your DB through which you can fetch
the details.
So we return a user ID and let's say name.
And currently what is the verified status.
Let's say it's unverified.
But what if I want to use Hateoas link Hateoas RESTful API.
So in this case with Hateoas link, this is how the response generally looks like.
We send the user id same name, verify status unverified, but see this is so links inside links we
send what all the next step you can do.
So it's an array.
You can even have more like this.
So all the actions which can be done after this current state what all the next things you can do,
you can put it into the links.
So here I have just for example I have added one link where it says that relation is self the URI and
what is the type.
So this is nothing but a HTTP method for this URI.
Whether it's a get call, post call, patch call, delete call.
So we can add that URI is the what is the next URI.
It can be invoked.
Right.
And what is the relation of this API with this current state?
Okay.
So currently I put self means this API will return you the details of this only.
It's generally a get call.
Self is always a de facto.
You can say that even if I don't write get right and if it is relation is self, it's a de facto.
It's like a get call for this one.
If you have to fetch the details of this user ID, generally self represent that only that it's a Get
call.
Okay.
But still we will see more details about it.
But for now what I wanted to show you without at your link generally what how the response look like
and with hateoas how the response generally looks like.
So this is what actually important here we provide what all the next action can be taken after this
step.
How to do that?
I will tell you.
But before understanding how to do this, let's understand when to use and why to use.
Very important.
Right?
So there are two major purpose of using Hateoas link.
Right.
And the two major purpose we want to use is to achieve loose coupling and API discovery.
So when I say that loose coupling is loose coupling between your client and server application.
And when I say that API discovery, what I mean is that let's say at server there are hundreds of APIs.
So client should not have like difficult time to understand like okay where this API is gonna be used,
where this API gonna be used.
What should be the API for this?
So in the links itself you are getting your API showed that hey, invoke this API, you can invoke this
API after this one.
You can invoke all this this API after this.
Okay.
So that's what I mean.
Say API discovery even though client not need to have like okay what all the different APIs are available
server hey tell me no it's not required.
Even server in the links itself can tell these are the five APIs now eligible after this particular
step.
Now client can use those.
Now to achieve above server provide the next set of APIs action in the response itself.
Right.
Which client can take so that client have less business logic around APIs.
Which API to invoke.
When to invoke.
How to invoke.
But remember, adding all the next set of action can make our API response bloat up and has several
disadvantages.
Before telling you the disadvantage, let's see this response.
Now let's say that I showed you this example right?
Now let's say that when the user has been added through post API this slash add user.
Now in the response I am sending the next actions link.
What can be performed?
So I can do get call delete call verify call something something something.
Now if I add all the links like this.
So after post let's say post add user call.
Now if my response looks like this.
Hey, in the link I am providing, hey, you can invoke get call.
You can invoke delete.
So type I have put delete.
This is the API URI and the relation I have put is that.
Hey this is the relation of this API.
After the this next step is to remove it.
Okay so I have put remove.
Then you can also update it.
So for example I have just put hey you can use this API.
It's a patch and relation is you updation.
You can do verify.
You can either you can do verify start or verify finish depend because till verify is not finished it
is still in unverified.
So both are eligible.
Verify start is also an eligible operation.
Verify finish is also an eligible operation because currently status is unverified.
So now here if you see one thing, if we keep on adding next set of operation, this is just a very
basic use case I have taken.
And now here if you see one, two, three, four, five links I have added now in a big industries after
a particular step, there are so many things is possible.
If you keep on adding all the next set of operations, it gonna blow your API response, right?
And that's where everywhere we say that never use it, never use it.
Because if you use it heavily, if you keep on putting the next set of action ultimately not recommended
at all, right.
Why?
Because it will increase the complexity as server side.
Why?
It will increase the complexity as server side.
Because see all these links are dynamic.
It's not static links based upon the current state.
I am determining what all what all steps are applicable.
So I'm creating those links dynamically.
Right for you might be some other ID getting created for me, some other ID getting created.
So it's all dynamic.
So at if you are at step one this three actions is getting into the link.
If you are at step two, only these two links are getting created.
So these are dynamically at server side.
So means you are increasing the complexity at server side.
And also when you are adding this business logic you are increasing the payload size also.
And ultimately it nothing it will impact your latency too.
So never ever add all the possible next set of action.
Just like that.
Never ever do that.
Hey this this is all 1020 actions are possible.
Do that.
No.
So now you can ask me, right.
Hey if I, if I can't add all next set of action, then what next set of action I can add?
I'll tell you.
But with this example, first let's see this go back to again.
So we have to do proper analysis.
Need to be done.
What actually will help us to achieve loose coupling.
Now see this diagram again.
So just in one minute I will walk you through this diagram again.
What I am trying to achieve.
So I have added a user through post API which user is in currently unverified state.
You can do a get call, you can do delete it and even you can verify for verify you can do through SMS
or through email.
And in both the way you first have to do this API start SMS.
Verify start and then SMS.
Verify.
Finished email.
email verify.
Email.
Verify.
Finish.
Okay, after this, your user will get verified.
But let's say this is the diagram which I have done.
So now let's understand this.
So here if you see that.
Let's forget that we are not using let's say that we are not using it for a moment.
Let's say we are not using it.
So how your response gonna look like after this post?
Add user call how your response gonna look like.
So you are adding a user ID your name.
What is the current uh verify status?
It is unverified okay.
But also let's say that the server also do has the knowledge that okay for this country Verify type
should be SMS.
So that, uh, client should initiate a SMS.
Verify start.
So currently verify type is SMS and verify state is currently not yet started.
SMS is not yet started.
So means it has to first start if it is already started.
Means you can only do finish now.
So this is a very basic response.
Let's say that the server is sending to the client.
Currently user is unverified.
User can verify using type SMS and currently the verify state is not yet started.
So now see what the client logic look like.
See, I am not a client side uh, engineer.
So definitely this code is not valid for client, but the logic should be, I think the same if the
client has to code this way.
So what client will should do to get user verified.
So client will check this response.
Hey, if verify status is unverified, yes it is reading from the response unverified go to the next
step.
What is the verify type?
If it is SMS or email.
If it okay it is SMS.
Go inside.
This does verify status has been started.
Oh it's not yet started.
If it is not yet started means I have to call this API sms verify start.
If the verify status let's say started.
Then I have to invoke SMS verify finish API.
And if it is an email the same thing if verify state is not yet started, I have to call this API email
verify start.
If verify status started I have to call email verify finish.
So now here if you see this, generally the client code should be present to initiate a verify for the
user.
Now I see that there is a lot tight coupling between client and server.
Client needs some info before it can decide which API verify API to invoke now client here.
If you see lot of business logic why client has this business logic here.
If it is unverified, whether through SMS or email, if SMS, whether it has been started or not started.
If not started, invoke this API if it started, invoke this API.
So this is I call it very tight coupling.
And this is just a one use case.
If there are hundred of use case, imagine the client code.
Now let's say that comes into the picture.
I can make this tight couple code into a loose couple through Hateoas link.
Now let's say that this is the response I will send.
What is the user ID name?
Verify status and verified.
But now here.
If you see that I am not sending SMS or not yet started at server side itself, I will compute all this
thing.
And in the link I will just simply provide.
Hey, this is the next you should do you.
You can do.
This is the URI, this is the post call and the relation is that this is a verify link.
You can do verify.
So here if you see I am just telling invoke this api sms verify finish.
Now internally server itself has determined that okay, it is unverified and I have already started.
I started the SMS verification so next can be done is finish only.
Okay, so I have just provided the next link, only this one I haven't doesn't provided all the links,
only this.
Now how the client code gonna look like if verify status is unverified?
Yes it is unverified.
Use the link which is given in the iOS.
Just use this link and invoke.
Just invoke it.
Now client doesn't need to know whether I can, uh, do it through SMS or email, whether SMS is started
or not started.
If it is already started, I need to invoke this finish.
All this logic is now goes to the server right now here.
If you see that client is now we can say that the client and server is loosely coupled and all this
logic, right?
This is actually business logic.
This should be present at server.
Like what's the next thing is eligible.
So you got it.
When to use it.
How how.
With this example we have from a tight coupled between client and server how we have achieved the loose
coupling.
So this is how I believe it should be Hateoas link should be used.
We should not put unnecessarily the next links.
Otherwise it's gonna be difficult.
Hell to manage this APIs.
So very cautiously we have to add a link.
Yes.
If you don't add it, there would be a tight couple.
If you add it.
Yes.
We are achieving loose coupling.
Okay, so this is one example If you understand it now, I will tell you how we can add this link.
So one thing is we have to add a dependency.
So this is in the dependency you have to put in to the Pom org dot spring, spring framework, dot boot,
spring boot starter and whatever the latest version you can use it.
Okay so now here if you see this is the rest controller and this is the post add user call.
So whenever a user is getting added this API will get invoked.
So here I am just getting a response.
Just see that this user response has all this thing user id name verify state this thing itself user
id name, verify state and for links.
What I have done is.
I have created a new class Hateoas links, and in that I have put the list of links.
Okay, and I have provided one add link where the link can be added.
So this link right this link object, it is coming from that spring boot, the dependency which we have
added.
So this dependency this link object is coming.
So why I have.
So why in this I haven't added that list of link.
Because see we could have 2050 APIs and in 50 APIs we might have to add a link.
So we can't.
So it's better that we create one class and that we put a list of link and in the response whichever
required it can extend it automatically.
Add link.
This links will be also part of this one.
Okay.
So now when the API got invoked.
Now let's say that user dot get user.
Uh, or you can say that instead of get user.
Let's say that.
Add user would happen and this is the response you got.
Okay.
Now in this response already these fields are filled up user ID name and verify status.
Now we had we have to add the links.
So here how to add a link.
So there are two ways I will tell you.
The one way is through web MVC link builder.
So what we can do is dot link to user controller dot class.
This class slash what is the next URI right.
So user controller class.
What it will do is let's say this class has slash API slash.
So that would be used.
So slash API slash would get added.
Then this method.
Write SMS.
Verify.
Hyphen.
Finish this.
Get added.
Slash the dynamic user ID slash.
Let's say 123456.
This.
From this user response I am reading this user id.
What is the relation?
It's the URI which I am adding.
It is to verify.
So this is the relation.
It's a verify link and it is a post type the same which ultimately it's going to be show like this right.
And you can add into your response response dot add link add this link.
So this is the user response right in this.
Since this is a child of this link you can call add link also.
And this one link get added.
If you have to add more link you can keep on adding more link dot add link.
One more you can create, you can add it.
But I would always say you that add cautiously.
So this is one way to add and another way to add is like link off.
This link object is the same.
The dependency which we have added link dot off.
And you can provide the URI itself, whatever the slash API slash this.
This is all a string.
You have made a URI.
Then what is the relation and what is with type.
And you can add this link.
So both the ways whichever you find it's easy.
And uh either through slash slash or either directly simply in one string, we can add it in to our
response.
Okay.
And this is how it gonna get added.
So it's an array we have added as an array list.
Right.
So it's an array.
And we have added only one link which is verify relation type is post.
And this is the verify link.
Okay.
So this is based on our business logic.
Based on business logic we determine what URI to add.
It's not static.
So I hope this is clear.
If there is an argument comes that why you are using it?
What advantage are you gonna add?
Loose coupling is the big advantage.
And maybe you can come up with your own example.
But this is the example which I come up with.
Where through verify.
I have showed you how the tight coupling looks like and how we can achieve the loose coupling with the
link.
But if you have more doubts, let's discuss in the comment section.
And.
But I hope this video would be useful.
But this is.
This topic is generally known as Hateoas RESTful APIs.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- ResponseEntity & Response Codes | 1xx, 2xx, 3xx, 4xx and 5xx Return Codes ---

Hey guys, on this side and welcome to the next video of Spring Boot.
So in Spring Boot I wanted to cover an exception handling, but I feel that before learning about exception
handling, we first need to understand more better about response and different type of response codes.
Okay, so today I will cover an in-depth about our response in Spring Boot.
So response generally consist of three parts status code header and body okay.
So status code is nothing but an HTTP response code like 200 500 etc. we will see.
Header is something which is an additional information we can send, and body is the data which need
to be sent in response okay.
So to send this response in spring boot we can use response entity object.
So here if you see this response entity it's a generic class.
So whatever the type you will pass.
That type is of this body.
So here if you see if I search for response entity class in this response entity this t if you go to
the parent class, this T is nothing but a type of a body okay.
So if if you are putting this as a string then in the body you can only put a string.
If this is a particular class object, you have to put the same object of that class only.
So take this as an example.
So here I have creating a simple inside of a controller.
This is my simple method which is a get mapping get user.
So this get user here the response entity.
This is I am returning it and the type is string, so means my body would can only be sent as a string.
So now here if you see in the response entity object response or entity dot status okay, so this is
a static method I am sending what should be the status.
So each status denote a particular uh like what exactly happened to your request.
So for this status I am saying that okay request is okay, HTTP status is okay.
And we can pass the header.
So here if you see I am passing like this you can create an HTTP header object.
And inside this HTTP header you can put a name and value.
What is the header name and header value.
So some additional information which you like to add okay.
And then dot body.
And here the body type is your string.
So here we will put a string here.
So I just put like my response body object on go here.
So this is an string.
So this is a how we can send a response back from our controller.
But here if you notice that.
So here we are when we are doing response entity dot status dot header dot body.
So this body should always be at last right.
So body should be last.
So actually it's kind of using builder design pattern okay.
So here if you see when I am doing dot status.
So dot status method actually returning what is the return type of status.
Body builder okay.
So means it is still not a final final status which we have to send.
Then I am doing dot header.
So what is the return type of header is B which is nothing but a bodybuilder if you go and check.
Okay, so again, this is a builder pattern which we are using.
And when we do dot body.
So here if you see the response of the body actual is the response entity final object which we actually
has to return.
So response entity.
So that's why you can't do like set status dot body and then dot header.
No that will not work.
Right.
So I think you already know uh builder design pattern which I have already covered in my Design Patterns
video.
So I hope this is one practical example where a spring boot is using builder design pattern.
And that's why dot body would always comes at last.
So what to do when we don't want to add any body in the response?
There are many scenarios like delete use case where we don't add any response in the body or any data
into the body.
So what we do.
So here you can't do that.
Hey Dot body and do something.
We can't do that right.
So here we can use this method build.
So here if you see the build method actually also returns the response or entity.
And if you go inside build method you will do see that it will do dot body.
And inside it will put null only.
So here if you see if in the response entity, if we see build method what exactly is doing.
So here it see that build method.
What exactly is doing dot body.
And it just putting a null.
And ultimately the final response which we have to send okay.
So here if you see the same method I am putting dot status dot header.
Now I don't want specifically to put here dot body null so I can use it dot build.
So internally it will put my body null.
Okay.
So that's where somewhere you will see dot build and somewhere you don't find.
Hey there is no dot build.
So why.
So in that case you can already know that if dot build is used means there is no body and if body is
present, you don't need build method because body itself generates a response entity for this.
Okay.
So now here if you see just see this one I am creating, uh this is my controller class.
I am doing get mapping.
Now here I am creating an object new user.
I have created one object and I am returning that object itself.
Now here, if you see, I am not putting response entity here.
That's also you can use.
So what happen is spring boot internally wrap it around your response or entity.
So internally it would be like response entity user okay.
So usage of response entity is not like a mandatory.
You can directly return the object whatever you want it to do.
And ultimately internally Spring Framework will do a wrapping of this okay.
And here if you see I am not sending any status I am not putting any header.
So what should be the status by default status would get set here is 200 okay.
So that would status will go.
But if you have to specifically set an status you have to use response entity okay.
Otherwise if you are not using by default would go 200 okay.
Okay.
Now there is something called at the rate response body.
So this is very interesting.
And many times this is we don't even consider it right.
But it has very important meaning.
So let's see that when we return plain string or Pojo directly from the class like here.
In this case I am returning Pojo right then response body annotation is required.
But now you can say that hey here you haven't put a response body here I haven't put response body here.
Then how it is working now you are saying there whenever we are directly returning any plain string
or any Pojo class something, then at the response body is required annotation is required.
Why?
So first of all, we need to see why it required it.
It is required because it tell to considered value as response body not as the view.
So this whatever the object which I am returning considered as a body, the response body not as a view.
Okay.
So now let's see an example.
In the above example, we did not use at the rate response body.
As I told you right here, if you see I am directly returning a user an object, and here I haven't
used at the rate response body, I haven't used it because this at the rate rest controller.
If you go inside it and check I have I went inside this rest controller.
If you go inside and check it has this at the rate response body.
So by default with all methods within this user controller which has this annotation with all method,
this response body will get appended.
Okay, so you don't need to specifically add this annotation because in the rest controller itself,
this response body is present.
But let's say that you are using at the rest controller.
You are not using Rest controller, you are using add the controller.
Then will this code work?
Now here if you see that I am using add controller, now I am directly returning a string okay or any
object right?
Will this work?
Now here.
If you try to run this it will throw an error.
Not found.
What?
It not found what it is trying to search.
So here you are trying to return a string.
So what?
Since this controller do not inherit like at the response body.
So by default this spring boot will be considered as a name of a view.
Okay, so Spring Boot will try to look for some file with this name.
Okay.
And since there is no such file exit it says that not found.
Maybe some JSP files are right or something.
So it tries to render like hey where is that view present.
So that's where with at the rate controller you have to specifically use response body.
You have to tell that hey what I am returning considered as the response body, not as a view.
Okay.
Now now we know that response entity what it is.
We have to be very clear with the response codes because this is not only important for learning exception
handling also, and also in your day to day project and from the interview perspective also this is
like very very important.
So we have five categories 1X2XX, 3X4X and 5XX.
So 1XX is very less frequently used.
To be honest.
It is mostly informational.
So information is like when the client and server are talking right.
And server has to send some information to client.
Then server use this response code and it is also called as.
This is like a intermittent code.
So server when tells to the client some information this is not the final response.
This is not the final response.
Server might still be processing and then later it might return a final response.
So this one is just an informational one.
And it could be an interim interim response code, not the final one.
Second one is success, which is like whenever the request is success Then we use two x return code.
There are so many return codes.
I will tell you three x axis for redirection.
When you want client to look at some other API or some other resource to get the data.
For X is like a validation error, like something is not either client did not send the correct correct
data to you, or there is some business logic failure and but this is an expected expected failure.
This request should fail.
Okay.
So that's why it's like a validation failure.
This is this five x is server error which is like all this request should get success.
But because of some issue at the server null pointer exception typecast exception something it got failed
which should not be.
And we should always make sure that our component should have five errors as low as possible, so I
will cover the one axis at last.
So let's start with two x axis.
So here if you see that request received from client is processed successfully.
So here if you see I have added five most frequently used status code of 2X2 hundred.
Reason is okay.
So this is mostly used in get method and post method.
So here in the get method your request is successful and you are returning the response body.
So response body exists.
And in the post call when the it's an idempotent call.
When I call mean.
Let's say that post call one.
So post is like addition of new user.
So now let's say that new user is added.
User one added.
Now again.
Duplicate call.
Duplicate call is coming.
Now what happen is it will not insert a new new row.
So what it will say is that.
Hey, it's an iodoprotein.
Iodoprotein means the same row is already present.
So it will say 200 means no new row is created.
But request is success and it will return the same data for this one.
Okay, so no.
When it is an idempotent, no new row is created.
Okay.
The same row is used and the data is returned and it will pass as 200 okay.
So during post call add call we returned 200.
And it yes it has response body 201 is created.
It means created and it is mostly frequently used with the post API request is successful and new resource
is created.
So when the first call come post.
So there we created a new row in the DB and that's where we returned 201 means some row is created.
Okay 202 accepted.
So here it is.
Also most frequently used with the post request is successfully accepted by the server, but processing
is not yet completed.
So mostly like batch processing like export import we use this.
So what generally happen is client invoke an API.
Let's say add export.
Now the server method simply return your 202, this one accepted and before returning 202.
It might have spawned a new thread, some new thread and continuously processing it.
Now this this task might take some time.
Ten minutes, 15 minutes, some exporting, importing huge data we don't know.
So it's like accepted but not yet completed.
204 no content is your delete operation request is successful and we are not returning any data in the
response body.
Okay.
If data is returned in the response body, we have to send 200.
If data is not returned in the response body, 204 should be returned and request is successful.
Means like no post processing is happening, everything is completed like all the processing is completed.
Like this 206 partial content.
So this is also a post API mostly used.
So generally when you are performing bulk operations like bulk additions, I am trying to do bulk addition
of let's say 100 users.
Now, out of 100 users, 95 got passed and five requests got failed.
So what shall I tell to the client whether it's a request is success or fail, then we can tell that,
hey, 2006, it's a partial content.
Like partial.
It's a partial, not fully content.
Right.
So this is how we can use 2006 as a partial content response code.
This is just one example.
Then we have three which is called redirection.
Client must take additional action to complete the request.
So now the action item is on the client.
So mostly frequently used when we migrate from legacy API to the new API.
Okay.
So here let's say that 301 which is a moved permanently.
Okay.
So now here what happened is it says that all requests should be directed to the new URI.
The old URI which client is trying to access is now moved permanently.
So here I will show you one example.
So in this one here, if you see that, let me zoom it a bit.
Okay.
I hope it is visible.
So here, if you see the very simple controller class I have one get mapping old get user.
So this is an old API.
Now in this case I am returning.
What I am returning is response entity set dot status is moved permanently.
So move permanently is your 301.
And in the header I am returning location.
This is the header name and the value.
I am putting the new API value slash API slash new.
Get user this one and inside this get mapping I am just uh returning response entity status is okay
and body is success.
Simple.
Okay.
So now here if you see from the postman, if I am running, if I am hitting old get user.
So here.
If you see I am getting success now you can ask right?
Hey you are hitting old get user API which is actually not not there.
Body is empty, it's not returning and status is moved permanently.
How come you are getting status 200?
And if you see that the response is success, which is actually my new API body actually success.
So how come this postman automatically redirected me to the new API when I'm just hitting old get user?
So here if you see that when we are so all the clients know this, understand this status codes.
So when I said that move permanently means some action is required from the client.
What action?
In the header.
I have put a location and the new API.
So if in the postman, if you go to the settings there.
If you turn it off, this automatic follow redirects.
If I turn it off now, if you run it here, if you see.
Do you see any response.
No.
What is the response code?
You got 301 moved permanently.
Now.
Now in the header this location is there which actually client follow.
So you got it.
So client understand this right okay.
If 301 is coming then I have to go look at the location in the header.
And whatever the new API I will follow it okay.
Then there is something called 308 permanent redirect.
Permanent redirect and move permanently.
There is a slight difference.
Okay.
The slight difference is that in the 308 it do not allow HTTP method to change while redirect.
For example, your old API call is the post, but you can redirect it to get.
But in the 308 you can't do that if your old API is post.
The new API should also be the post.
But here in the three zero move permanently, this is not the restriction.
If your old uh API is your post, the redirected you can move to get also.
So this method there is no such restriction.
But in 308 this is actually improved.
And it makes sure that the post if old is post then new also should be post only.
That's the only difference then very important 304 not modified.
So here, if you see, I'll tell you where most of the engineers use this response code wrongly.
But let's first understand where it.
What is the purpose of this 304 not modified.
So client make a get call server return it with the last modified time in header.
So this is the first step.
Server makes a simple get call some get call server return the data, but along with the data, also
send the last modified time when this data, which I am returning when it was last modified.
Now client cache the response whatever the data response it got for the get call it, cache it now client
make another get call.
Pass this last modified time in header and the header name is if modified since okay.
So client add this data into the header if modified since Sense.
So what we can do is when we are writing a API, right?
And we want to add this functionality, we can read this header if modified, since if it is present
into the get call, what it will do is server will check the particular resource last update time with
what client provided.
Okay, in my db for this row.
User one.
It was last updated on let's say 13th September and if modified since earlier which client earlier when
it make a get call is let's say also is 13th September.
Now let's say that if if there are no change, like the client has the latest data itself, there is
no modification in the DB.
After that, the server will say that 304 not modified server do not load all the data and return all
the data server will simply say that 304 not modified, and client will use its cache data.
But let's say that client data has 12th September, but in DB it's now updated and it has 13th September.
Then what it will do is server will load it, server will process the request as usual and return the
new values.
So that is what the main purpose of 304 not modified.
But I when I talk with different engineers, they also use with the patch calls how they are using with
the patch calls.
Now let's say that you have one data into a DB user.
One name is SJ.
Let's say now one patch call is coming.
Now patch call says that hey update name to SJ.
Now our API let's say update API, update user API.
Try to update the name, but before that we have a business logic that hey, in DB, whatever the name
we have, if it is equals to equals to whatever the name it is coming SJ like the new name, whatever
the new name, it is coming, then don't update, then don't update.
No, no need to update required, right?
Already in DB is there?
And also you are trying to update SJ what is the point of updating it?
So generally our business logic has this.
And there we try to send that hey 304 not modified but this is wrong 304 not modified.
This is not the actual purpose.
The purpose of 304 is generally used with the.
When the client using the caching and client is also passing this header and server consuming this headers
if modified since but never try to use with the patch like in this scenario.
In this case.
Generally you can pass 200 okay.
Like no row updated nothing.
Right.
Or 200 for like no content.
Okay.
So then we have for XX which is a validation error.
Client need to pass the correct request to the user server.
So the server has failed this request.
But it's not a fault of a server.
It's either for fault of a client or business logic.
So there are many popular for error codes.
First is 400, which is nothing but a bad request.
Most frequently used with get post patch delete APIs.
Client is not passing the required details to process the request.
If for a particular API, I need these three fields.
If client is not passing one of the field, Then server will fail with bad request.
Hey, you haven't given me the correct request itself.
I need these details to process the request for zero one.
Unauthorized.
Again popular with all the APIs.
Any API which require authentication.
So if you see that in the header when you pass a request, certain API required, like some token,
like bearer token or basic authentication where you provide a username password itself.
But if you are not providing those, then and if you try to access that API, it will fail with 401
unauthorized.
Any API which accept the authentication and if you are not providing this, it will fail.
403 forbidden is Let's say you have an API user API.
Okay.
Now in this user API there is certain operation.
There is certain operation.
Let's say that if API gets invoked from admin, if admin invokes that, then it's okay.
Let's say that, uh, there is something called address.
Address updation.
Updation of an address can only be done by admin.
No other user has permission for it.
If if a call comes apart from admin and they are trying to update an address, okay, then it will fail
it with forbidden because that client do not have that permission to update the address.
Only admin as a client has the permission.
Okay.
Then we have 404 not found.
So here what happens is generally popular with get patch and delete, not with the post.
Because in the post we are trying to create a new row, but here.
404 here in the APIs, let's say you are doing a Get call.
You are trying to fetch certain user 123.
Hey, get me the details of this user.
You are trying to do a patch.
Hey this is a patch call for this user.
So now we are working on a particular ID, we are telling a server that hey, I want to do a get on
this ID or patch update of this ID or delete this ID.
So what generally server will do is it will try to find the details of the ID which you are passing
in a DB.
In this case let's say one, two, three it trying to fetch, but in DB there is no such ID present.
What server will do it?
Server will send 404 not found.
Hey, I didn't found the resource itself.
What you are trying to look for?
Okay, so maybe client not had sent this ID correctly.
Then we have 405 method not allowed.
So again let's say that hitting get API but with post http method.
So here in this case it's a get.
But if I just make it post what I will get 405 method not allowed.
So I have this is the get API.
But if you are trying to hit with the wrong method you will get this.
422 is Unprocessable entity again popularly frequently used with all this methods during get post patch
delete.
What exactly 422 is that some business logic failure?
Business logic failure means that very specific to your business.
Let's say that France users should not be allowed to open an account.
Okay, as we haven't got a license in this country, so France users should not get onboarded.
But if any request comes to post for user countries, let's say France.
Okay, even though request is valid, everything is proper.
All the fields are set.
But your business logic will stop this.
Okay, so your business logic will catch this.
That and says that hey, it's an unprocessable entity.
We cannot process it.
It's a business validation actually.
Then we have something called 4 to 9.
Too many requests.
So here what happened is that we are putting a rule for example, one user can max make ten calls in
a minute.
This is the maximum calls it can make in a minute.
Now if user 12345 makes the 11th call in a minute, then that will get blocked and will throw that 4
to 9 too many requests.
Okay.
So consider this type of a rate limiting.
It's a type of rate limiting.
We are trying to do that.
Uh if too many request user is making okay then your rate limiter will say that hey not allowed.
Uh, so in a minute, ten calls are allowed, right?
So okay.
One, two, three, four till ten calls are all success in a minute.
The 11th call.
Let's say that it says that.
Hey, rate limiter says that.
Hey, the 11th call which you are trying to process.
This is not allowed now.
So what you can do is you can send 4 to 9 too many requests.
And also there is something called 409 which is called conflict actually.
So 409 conflict.
Is that like uh, you have one request, one request, which is already in, in progress.
It's not yet completed in progress.
Let's say slash user 123.
Any API let's say patch API okay.
So mostly 409 conflict is popular with patch, delete and post not with the get.
Get is like you can do as many times get.
But this three operations patch, delete and post.
What happen is that when it is in progress, when it is in progress and another request comes same slash
user.
Slash 123.
Same thing.
Exactly same.
What it will say is that we return 409 and we say that, hey, conflict, it's already in progress.
So what generally we do is we put a lock, right, let's say in some cache or itself say that, hey,
one, two, three.
Currently will says that some it is locked.
Okay.
So till this request is not completed, this lock would be there.
And if any request comes while this above request is in progress, it would like conflict and we will
return 409.
So generally this lock generally we also put TTL itself after let's say ten second automatically get
released because we know that 10s is sufficient for a one API to get completed.
Depending upon your API's, maybe you can put five second one second two seconds right?
Or if you don't want to put TTL, you want to manually release it.
Okay.
Request a success and then go and remove the lock.
Remove this lock.
Okay.
So 409 conflict is also very popular.
Okay.
Then we have five access like a server error request got failed at server.
Even though client passed the valid request means something wrong at server.
So here if you see that this is the most popular like always we send 500 internal error code.
Generally any issue comes because for us server should not fail at all.
When we write a code, we write in a way that this if it's a valid request.
All the validations like for all the four access it has crossed, all validations are success.
Then request should get success.
So every time we write a code, we write in a manner that if there is request, is proper.
No business logic failure.
User is properly authenticated.
Has the permission.
Request should be success.
But if still it is failing.
We don't know man.
Like we are not purposely writing a code to fail and handle it.
No.
So that's why most of the error goes into this bucket.
Internal server error.
Because we we are writing the code, but somehow it is failing which we might have to debug.
So it's that's why internal server error generic error code when no specific reason is suitable.
Okay.
501 not so generally here if you see the null pointer.
Exceptions are the major culprits here.
Sometime DB is down okay.
So those are the factors which can contribute to a server failure.
Then we have 501 not implemented here.
What happened is uh API lacks the ability to fulfill the request.
So what happens is sometimes we do, uh, code in chunks.
So now let's say that I have created this API slash API slash user, but the code implementation is
not fully.
But I have put that a if this API has been invoked, return this 1501 error code.
Okay.
Because this implementation I have not completed yet, I will I will do it.
So API is in development and future it would be available.
But if you are still calling it you will get five zero.
One means currently this API is not completed, it's in development.
It do not have the ability to fulfill the request today, but in future.
Yes, it might be.
Then there is something called bad gateway.
So server acting as a proxy and while calling upstream got invalid response.
What does it mean?
So for example my application is deployed behind reverse proxy nginx.
So this is your engine X and this is your application.
Okay.
If nginx is not able to communicate with my application.
So here nginx is uh here working as a gateway okay.
And it is trying to communicate with my application but it's not able to communicate okay.
Because of let's say misconfiguration of port number or something.
Then it is eligible to throw 502 bad gateway server acting as a proxy.
So this is acting as a proxy while calling upstream.
So it is trying to call upstream my application but get invalid response like not able to reach it so
didn't get a valid response.
Maybe be some time out while doing a connection.
And then it says that bad gateway.
And then we have one access like information which is very less frequently used.
So interim response to communicate request progress or its status before processing the final request.
So here one has 100 which is continue mostly used in post API.
So what happened is before sending the request client, check with the server if it can handle the request
and ready.
So at step one client add few things in the header first like what is the content length.
What is the content type.
And this header also put that hey expect 100.
So now when the request goes to the server request server will see that hey okay in the header Expect
is present, so means it.
It doesn't have to process the request.
Now it knows that the client is just checking.
So server validate everything.
Client is authenticated.
It has proper permission.
It has content type length do proper validation.
All the till for access.
So the the server makes sure that no for no no error should have come in this okay.
So all the validation will be done.
And server send that.
Yes.
Send 100 in the response code that continue.
And after that client receive it and invoke the API without the expect header and server process the
request.
So now here if you see that this 100 where this server centered, this is not the final response code.
This is just an interim.
Okay.
So client pass to the server that hey can I server check it and say that.
Yes you can.
And then ultimately client pass the request and server sent this.
So this is the final response actually.
So this that's why one access is known as informational that it is just an interim response code.
Which server send it to send certain information to the client.
To be honest, in the last nine years I haven't used this 100.
Continue.
Okay.
But most of the other response codes is like frequently used.
We have done a lot of migration from legacy and here.
So 33X is also very frequently used.
So it's not like that.
Okay guys.
So any doubt any question let me know.
We can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot Exception Handling ---

Hey guys, and welcome to Concept and Coding.
Today I will be covering very, very important topic and very frequently asked topic in an interview,
which is nothing but an exception handling.
So apart from just controller advice and response status annotation, I will be covering a lot more
things and I hope you will find it really, really helpful in your interviews and your day to day work
also.
So let's start.
What are the classes involved in handling an exception?
So here if you see this is an hierarchy of classes.
And out of this hierarchy this 5123.
So these three resolver is very important.
And this four and five.
This four and five are generally a helper classes I considered as an helper classes.
So these five classes are very important in handling an exception.
And at top we have an interface handler exception resolver which is an interface which expose a method
I think do resolve exception.
Okay, so let's understand the sequence when an exception occurs and the role of each five classes.
So now let's say that you already know that the first controller which is Spring Boot provide to us
is nothing but a dispatcher servlet.
So dispatcher servlet is the one which actually invokes our controller also.
So it is possible that our controller might throw an exception or dispatcher not able to invoke our
controller itself.
So in any case, let's say any case exception occurs.
What would happen.
So dispatcher servlet will pass the request to this handler exception resolver composite class.
Okay so this is this class handler exception resolver composite class.
So this class I considered as mostly a helper.
And most probably you can say that orchestrator.
Orchestrator of what orchestrator of this resolver.
So there are three resolvers exception handler.
Exception resolver class.
Second is response status exception resolver and third is default handler exception resolver.
This three this three resolver.
So here this class handler exception resolver composite class.
Invoke this resolver in sequence.
First will invoke this second this and third this.
So here what happens is whenever an exception happens.
So this exception is passed to the first resolver.
This is your first resolver exception handler exception resolver.
So once this resolver process.
It's work.
The control goes back to your.
Composite class.
Then it checks.
Hey, exception is handled.
If yes.
If this resolver is able to handle your exception, then it will not grow further.
It will return to this one default error attribute class.
But now let's say that if the handle if the exception is not handled, then this composite class will
pass it to the your second resolver which is response status exception resolver.
And after that again before proceeding to the next resolver it again checks.
Hey is your previous resolver is able to handle the exception?
If yes, then you know that it will goes to this step.
Default error attribute.
If no then only it will goes to the third and last resolver.
Default handler exception resolver.
Okay.
And once all the three resolver completes its task.
Thus, ultimately the control again comes to default error attribute.
So no matter whether any resolver is able to handle it or not.
Ultimately, the control will have to become here.
If they are able to handle it, then directly will come.
It will not go to further resolver.
Otherwise it will pass through all the resolver one, resolver two, and finally resolver three.
After that, again the control comes to this.
So and after this the response has been sent to the client.
So at this point of time, you would be clear that these three are the resolvers classes which actually
handles an exception.
It is followed in sequence.
This is first response status exception resolver is second and default is third.
And this two are the helper classes.
This is nothing but an orchestrator which actually orchestrate this three resolver classes.
--.
And after that, this is the last one which actually create a response.
With proper status.
Timestamp.
What is the message?
Proper error response and ultimately send the response.
So this is ultimately where we create a response actually what is your status?
What is error message status.
Let's say 400 error messages.
Let's say bad request something and ultimately the response is sent.
Okay.
Let's see a flow with an example.
This will clarify you more.
So I have created a very simple controller class okay I have one Rest controller class.
Get mapping means it is slash API slash get hyphen user API.
I'm creating it and I'm throwing null pointer exception and throwing one message.
Throwing null pointer exception for testing.
If you run this what output you will see I am hitting this API.
What output?
I will see 500 error code and here timestamp status 500 error, internal server error and path.
How?
Who set all these things?
I never set here that it's a 500 internal error code, but somewhere internally it has been set.
Who we will see that.
Just one more example creating a one more controller.
But here now I am throwing new custom exception.
Okay, you in Java, I have already explained you how you can create a your custom exception.
So I created a custom exception.
I extended runtime exception class okay.
And I have just exposed two fields here Status and message.
In the constructor I am setting this field and the getter method.
Okay, so here, if you see that I am throwing new custom exception setting this, it's a bad request.
And this is the message request is not correct.
User ID is missing.
So I am setting a status and message and I am throwing this.
Now if you run this, hit this API what output you are seeing again 500 internal server error.
The timestamp.
Current timestamp.
Let's say status error path.
Now here if you see the 500 internal server error.
Now if you see that hey you are returning bad request, which is nothing but a 400 and messages request
is not correct.
User ID is missing.
But why?
This seems 500.
Internal server error is coming.
What is happening here?
One thing you need to consider that in both the example we are not creating response entity object,
we are just returning the exception.
So some other class is creating the response entity object.
So from the previous video you already know that whenever we send a response we have to create a response
entity object.
Okay.
In that we set two things body and status.
But here if you see that we are just returning an exception.
But still in an output we are seeing this response.
So somebody is creating response entity for us who I think you already know the answer right.
Two it's actually default error attribute.
But why 500.
Why 500.
So here what's happening is when you are throwing an exception and not returning response entity means
you are utilizing the Exception resolver framework.
Now your all the exception will pass through this flow.
Okay, if none of the resolver is able to handle your exception, then this default error attribute
by default value it will set.
500.
Okay, so 500 is nothing but a default status code.
Okay.
But if you want full control and don't want to rely on exception resolver, then we have to create the
response entity object.
Always remember.
And here the example which I am showing you many company still follows this.
They don't rely on exception resolver.
So what happen is here the same thing.
I am throwing custom exception status and message.
Very basic.
Okay, this is your custom exception class.
And just, uh, just to recap you, this message is just, uh, optional.
You can even send super, super message.
So this runtime exception, it's parent is exception class.
This has I think one field called detailed message.
Okay.
So this detailed message is somewhere which uh the framework wanted.
This message is ultimately gets set to this one.
So either two way either you just do super message.
Okay.
And ultimately it will go to runtime exception.
Runtime exception here if you see uh let's go runtime exception here again it says super message.
And here ultimately it gets set into detailed message.
Okay this is one way.
Or if I don't want to do super just for clarity purpose I just added here.
I just added a string message, setting it and overwrite the get message itself and returning this message
here itself.
Okay, instead of uh, if you don't want to override it, then you have to do super and pass the message.
And ultimately this message will get set to that, uh, detailed message field, this one.
And then if framework call, get message, this one, this detail message would be returned.
But if you don't want it, I already told you that, uh, you can override this one.
You can override it and return this message.
Okay.
So this is just a quick recap like, uh, so now come back to this one.
I am doing a try throwing an exception, sending an status and message.
Now I am catching one.
I am catching this custom exception and another I am catching this generic exception.
So definitely this custom exception will get caught this throw new exception.
Now here, if you see I am returning the response entity, I am creating the response entity body and
your status.
So body I am sending is I'm creating an object.
Object which has this error response is just nothing but a Pojo class which has three things timestamp,
message and status.
Very simple.
So I am creating a new object which is nothing but a Pojo.
I am setting the date current date.
What is the message?
So whatever the exception is coming.
Okay I'm doing e dot get message.
So message would be set and whatever the status code E dot get status okay.
So this status would be set into this object.
And this object I am putting into the body.
And then the response what is the response status.
I said this e dot get status this one only.
So this is how your response going to look like the 400 bad request which is response entity status.
And this is your body timestamp status and message.
This one timestamp status and message.
So now here, if you see that this resolver I told you that three resolvers are there.
Those are not even involved.
Now you have taken control how you are going to handle an exception.
Custom exception happens how you want to handle it.
So you have created a response entity and it got returned properly.
You are able to see proper error messages which you wanted to return.
Exception resolver is not invoked.
But when we don't return response entity we just simply return throw.
Somebody has to create response entity for us.
That's where the framework comes into the picture And that's where this all resolvers and flow comes
into the picture.
Now, I already told you.
Now when you throw a custom exception.
So this composite will pass this custom exception to this class resolver.
The first exception handler exception handler exception resolver says that hey, I only able to handle
at the rate controller advice and at the rate.
Exception handler annotation.
Apart from this I don't know.
So does custom exception has any such annotation?
No.
So this says that I can't handle it.
It goes here.
Does exception handle by previous resolver.
No.
So it goes to the response status exception resolver.
Hey can you handle this custom exception.
It says that hey, I only take care of at the rate response Status annotation.
I don't know about anything else.
Again, it goes here.
Hey, does this resolve?
It does able to handle this custom exception?
No.
Then it goes to the default one.
If you go to the default one, default one is very like here.
If you see default handler exception resolver class it has very predefined that okay it handle spring
framework related issues like method not found.
Media type not supported right missing parameter exception.
So it only able to handle predefined exceptions.
So will it understand custom exception.
No I don't understand this.
And ultimately all three resolver pass and control comes to here.
And default error attribute what it will do here.
If you see default error attribute it will pass.
It will put timestamp current date status.
Now nobody able to handle it.
So default status would be set as 500 and all other details would be set.
Path error details and it will return the response entity.
The response entity would be created with this object and return.
If any of the resolver is able to handle the exception, then they will just set status and message.
Okay, now let's say that just assume that exception handler exception resolver is able to handle the
custom exception.
Let's say it will just send that okay.
For this exception this is the status message.
Let's say 400.
This is the message.
It will just set this.
And then it will say that yes handle it will goes here.
It will not proceed further.
And default error attribute will set proper status not default one 400 proper message and then return
it.
So you got the flow.
So here if you see that default error attribute, set this attribute timestamp status everything.
And then once the attribute is created, it will create a response entity with body and status and return.
Okay.
So I'll show you.
Let's see.
Now let's say this is an example where I am having a controller.
Same very basic.
I am throwing a custom exception.
Bad request user ID is missing.
See, I am not returning response entity, I am just throwing it directly.
If I run it, let me debug it.
I started the debugger point.
Now let's say we are hitting it.
Get user.
Okay, where the control comes composite first.
Now here in the composite you will see the resolver.
It will iterating it.
all the resolvers.
So now here if you see resolvers.
Three resolver first is exception.
Second is response status, third is default one okay.
So now if we assume the this custom exception will goes to.
Now your exception handler exception resolver.
The first handler the first resolver it will not be able to resolve it.
So it will goes to the second resolver which is response status exception resolver response status exception.
Resolver is also not able to handle it.
Then it will goes to the third one your default handle exception resolver.
So in the default one no one would be able to handle it.
Ultimately it goes to the default error attribute.
And what is the status it will send.
So here if you see in the attributes the status it will set to 500 internal server error because no
resolver is able to handle it.
No resolver is able to handle it.
And ultimately you see 500 internal server error.
Okay.
That's why we saw this message.
So now question is what exception does this three resolver handles.
Okay.
We know the flow.
We know the sequence.
We know the reason.
If we throw an exception if it is not handled I will get 500 default value.
But what this resolver handles actually I don't want to use custom.
Let's say you don't want to use this.
You don't want to handle in each.
You know that there are so many methods.
There are so many controllers do in each class, in each controller, in each method you want to do,
try, catch and handle an exception.
If it is a small application, it yes, it's good, but if it's a huge application, it's mostly you
will find it's a code duplicate.
For the same custom exception, you have to send a status error message and different different places
so we can make use of the framework.
But before that we need to understand what this three resolver actually handles.
Let's start with the first one exception handler exception resolver.
It is responsible for handling below annotation exception handler annotation and controller advice annotation.
So now let's go to the exception handler first.
But say controller level exception handling controller level.
So by the name itself it should be clear I have one controller user controller.
Inside this I might have multiple methods get method.
Now I don't have to worry about doing try catch and everything.
If any of my business logic, if any exception comes, I will throw it.
If any business validation comes, I will throw the exception.
Now in the controller level each controller I can put this method handle.
Let's say for custom exception handling, I put one method handle custom exception.
Put an annotation at the exception handler.
What is this annotation.
Right.
What what this exception it handles.
So we will write it here.
So what would happen here is that whenever in this controller, no matter how many methods you have
currently here, I have only one method.
Even if you have ten methods out of those ten methods, anybody throws custom exception, this handler
would catch it.
Okay.
This handler will say that okay, this handler is for handling the custom exception.
So this method will get involved.
Okay.
The same custom exception it catches here.
And then we can create a over response entity.
How you gonna handle it.
So I'm creating a response entity here that hey whatever the exception is coming read its message.
Read its status.
Okay.
So this is the status I want to set.
So now here, if you see that this is body right.
This is body and this body is X dot get message.
This is a string.
So response entity I am returning a string.
And if you see the response 400 bad request which is this status.
And the body is your message string.
So that's why only string comes.
No JSON response.
You saw no object.
So user ID is missing.
Okay.
Another use case just to show returning error response object instead of just message.
Like same thing.
Let's say you are in a single controller no matter how many method you have.
Anybody throws custom exception.
I have written one exception handler which takes care of custom exception.
So this method would get invoked and this custom exception.
What?
I am returning a response entity with this error response.
This is my body now which I'm creating an object object.
The same thing I have already showed you right time message and status.
So date message exception dot get message exception dot get status.
So this three will get set and I will set it to this body.
And in the response what is the status response status I set this only now you see the response 400
bad request.
And now, instead of just a string, you are getting a object.
Okay, so now this is your body, right?
So that's why I've written use object here in the response.
Just see one more use case to show multiple exception handler in one single controller.
So I have written two method here one get method.
One API is throwing custom exception.
Another is throwing let's say illegal argument exception.
In the same controller.
I have now added two exception handler one which takes care of custom exception, another takes care
of illegal argument exception.
So I have written.
So this method you can change handle something.
You can give some name illegal argument exception method.
So any this exception whenever this exception is thrown custom exception from any method.
You know that which exception handler will get invoked.
Any illegal argument exception would be thrown.
You know which exception will get?
Which exception handler will get caught.
Just see one more use case.
Use case to show one exception handler handling multiple exceptions.
So now if you see above hey both are doing the same thing.
Let's say this custom exception is also nothing but a bad request.
Illegal argument exception is nothing but a bad request and message.
We are anyway reading from exception.
We can even generalize it right?
So you can also do this at the rate custom exception handler.
And then you can make it an array kind of thing.
Custom exception or illegal argument exception.
Anything which occurs this handler will get invoked and response entity.
This is the message I will set body.
And this is the status bad request.
Okay.
So that also is possible.
One more use case.
Let's see that here.
Now I am not returning response entity.
Okay I am not returning response entity.
I am returning I am just setting the response and let the default error attribute create a response
entity for me.
So here if you see that the same part two methods.
Now in the exception handler which takes care of only custom exception.
I am here to see that I am not returning response entity.
I am just now here.
If you see that HTTP servlet response I am accepting in the parameter in the response.
I have put like what is the status and what is the message?
I just set this two value two attributes in the response.
Now when the control goes to default error attribute, you know that it will look for status and message.
Now, since our exception handler, the first resolver would be able to handle it.
Okay, so we have already said bad request and message.
Okay in the response.
So it will get bad request and proper message.
I will show you.
Okay so but here remember that one question should come to your mind that hey Shreyansh first I have
seen that when we are handling a custom exception, only one parameter was there exception.
Now here I am seeing two parameter HTTP response also comes in.
So what all parameters this Method can take, which is annotated with exception handler.
So you can have HTTP servlet response, HTTP servlet request and exception.
If you have only one, if your exception handler is accepting only one, or taking care of only one
exception, you can write exact same exception here, but here if you.
If your exception handler annotation is taking care of more than one exception, then you have to use
the parent level.
Here in this case I am using exception class.
Okay, so the third parameter you can use is exception and you can use in any order.
Even I can use custom exception first and HTTP servlet response second.
So here if you go I'll show you here if you go in exception handler.
Exception resolver.
So here inside that it would be like invoke and handle invoke for request.
Get argument values here.
If you see that it has something called resolve argument.
So it so it already knows that.
What are the supported parameter it has okay.
So if you pass this it knows that what value it has to fill this.
If you pass this.
It knows what value it has to fill.
So you can use it in any order.
And if you don't use it if you use it either one or all three, it would be fine.
Okay.
But you can't just put like a string.
This class doesn't know how to support this parameter.
How to fill this string.
So then it would not even invoke.
So here I just wanted to use response because in the HTTP servlet response, I want to set the status
and the body so that when my control reaches to default error attribute, it knows this field.
Let's see that.
So here in this one I am writing one exception handler.
Public.
Let's say I don't want to return anything.
Handle custom exception.
And this handler I am writing for handling custom exception only custom exception.
And also I want http servlet response.
Also you can put request also, but I don't currently need request.
So now here I am setting response dot send error.
So it set two things right.
One is I think int is your status code and then your message.
So status code I want to set let's say up here whatever the exception this one.
So exception dot get status dot value and exception dot get message.
And it has to throw an IO.
Okay.
Now if we run this what would happen.
So now first your controller get invoked and it throws an exception.
Once an exception is thrown you know that dispatcher servlet will pass it to composite class okay.
Now this composite class will first pass it to exception handler exception resolver.
Now it will see that hey this exception is there any exception handler annotation present which can
takes care of this exception okay.
Now it is checking.
Now here it is checking that yes it is invoking and handling.
So here our exception handler got invoked.
Now here I have handled it.
Either you can return response entity here itself.
Then once you return a response entity then it will not go to your default attribute.
But here I am just setting the response.
What is the status?
What is the message?
That's all.
I am not returning the response entity, but I just send the response attributes.
Now after this one, the control goes to your default error attribute which is setting timestamp.
Now status what status it will send.
See 400 okay.
And it will also set the message user ID is missing.
And ultimately it will create a response entity and return okay.
Got it.
So I think you should be very clear that when you're returning response entity.
Default attribute is not comes into the picture.
But now here I am returning just setting the attributes in the response.
Then default attribute comes into the picture and then it is creating this object.
But I think exception handler is clear to you right now.
Let's see global exception handling.
So now let's say that what happens if there are you have 100 of controllers let's say.
And everywhere you have to handle the custom exception in a similar way dozen each class, each controller.
You have to write this method.
Again it's a code duplicate right then where the global exception handling comes into the picture.
So how you can create a global exception handling.
So I can create a new class, annotate it Annotated with at the rate controller advice okay.
Which tells this resolver that yes, this is a global exception handler and you should take care of
it.
And inside this we can write the similar way, the way, the way we are writing a method here.
Write the same thing.
You can do it here also.
Nothing no difference.
Only thing is this class is now applicable for more than one controller.
Even user controller, maybe uh, some invoice controller order controller.
Any exception happens.
Let's say custom exception.
Okay.
The first priority would be given to that.
Hey, any exception handler which can handle the custom exception is present in your controller.
No.
Then it will go and check into the global one which is annotated with controller advice.
Okay.
So let's say that if any exception happens, it will properly invoke this.
and I told you.
Like what if I provide both controller level and global level exception which has more priority?
So here I have provided the same custom exception handler at controller level and also at the global
level.
And if any exception occurs throw new custom exception which handler will invoke it.
This or this.
So user id is missing from controller exception handler.
So first priority is always your controller level.
Here controller level.
And then if not then it goes to the global okay.
And then in global it checks the same exception handler.
Also one more question is what if there are two handler which can handle an exception.
Which one will given priority.
Now here if you see that in the in the global itself I have two exception handler one is custom exception
class, another is runtime exception class.
Now, if this exception is thrown, you know that, uh, ultimately your exception resolver will comes
into the picture the first resolver.
And that will use this annotation.
And it knows that, okay, there are two methods.
One is this method which can handle this exception.
But it is exactly matching custom exception.
Custom exception.
Another is runtime exception one, but it is also a parent of this one.
It can also runtime exception also can handle this, but which one to then use.
So it will use a hierarchy first priority to the exact matching one.
If there is no exact matching one, then it goes to the upper level its parent okay.
So currently in this case I have custom exception.
So this will get invoked.
But let's say in case if I don't have this then then response runtime exception will get invoked.
Okay, so you got it.
The first resolver what it handles.
This is your exception handler exception resolver.
It handles this at the exception handler annotation and at the rate controller advice.
And this is an industry standard.
Also we use that also in industry how you can use either controller level and either global level also.
Then there is another called response status exception resolver which is the second resolver in the
sequence.
Very confusing part.
Many people will say that it takes care of at the rate response status annotation.
The correct definition is it handles uncaught exception.
Uncaught exception annotated with response status annotation.
Let's see the meaning of this definition.
Very confusing.
I'll tell you why.
See this use case?
Very simple controller.
I am throwing an exception.
New custom exception.
I am just throwing a message, that's all.
And very basic.
Custom exception class.
Okay, extending runtime exception.
And here I am not writing my own message field and overriding the message method.
I just said that super message.
So ultimately that message field get filled up.
But here if you see I have put a response status annotation at top of this custom exception class.
What is the status bad request?
So now what happen is I am throwing an exception.
I am throwing an exception.
I am not returning response entity.
So control will goes to resolvers.
First it will goes to exception handler.
Exception resolver that don't know how to handle custom exception because there is no.
At the exception handler which can handle the custom exception.
So there is no.
So don't know how to handle this.
The second it goes to response status exception resolver.
There it will say that okay custom exception.
Now it goes to custom exception class and see that hey at the response status is there or not.
Yes it's there.
So it would handle it.
It would be able to handle it.
So handle uncaught exception.
This is uncaught exception.
It's just going through resolver one by one.
Can you handle me.
So okay only uncaught exception.
This response status able to handle it.
Always remember that.
So now in this case here if I show you.
Response status exception resolver.
Solver.
Okay.
So here let's say if any exception comes and it able to resolve it, let's say uh status not equals
to null.
Then what it does is.
It applies it the same thing.
What we do.
Right.
Send it nothing, but it just set the response HTTP servlet response.
It just send the status okay.
It is also possible to send a message.
I will tell you.
But you know that resolver will do.
Resolver will not create response entity only in the response.
It will just set status and message.
And then your default attribute class create a object out of it.
So resolver will say that yes, I can handle this because it has response status and this is the status
code.
It taken from the annotation.
So it properly set the response status.
So it will send it properly send the response status.
Bad request.
Okay.
But here if you see that also second example of this one the same thing I am throwing custom exception.
This custom exception has annotated with response status.
Now apart from status I you can also send message these only the two possible things.
Value and response.
Value is nothing but your status and reason is your message.
So here if you see that now when exception this uncaught exception goes reaches till response status
exception resolver, it will know that status okay.
And it will also say the reason.
If reason is also there, then it will send this both status and reason in the response.
Okay, so it will send this status and reason both.
So your status will be sent and your proper reason would be sent here.
Okay.
Even though now here if you see even though my message is this one but I have, it has given more priority
to this message.
If you haven't written this message at the top, what message?
Come user ID is missing this one.
So this is nothing but a default.
Default message would be used by default error attribute class.
Okay.
So if no message is given it will also not come here.
But since you have given the message.
So this will be user default message and the response status.
No message was there.
So it only set status that time.
But when you have given the response also reason also, then it set the status plus reason and that's
where invalid request pass this comes rather than this.
Okay.
Now actual one more confusion comes into the response status.
What if I use above an exception handler method.
Till now it is handling uncaught exception.
Exception happened which is not.
Nobody caught it.
And this exception has this class level response status.
So our response status exception resolver able to handle it.
But what if you use it with exception handler.
Now see this this class controller you have one get mapping get user.
You are throwing an exception.
Very basic.
Sick.
See that in this custom exception I am not using response entity.
Here are not response status here.
Okay, it's just a custom exception.
I have written one custom exception handler class exception handler method which takes care of this
custom exception.
Also I have put response status here.
Okay, so what is the response status.
Bad request.
And the reason is invalid requests.
And and in the method I have put response entity.
But here I am sending message.
You are not authorized forbidden.
So now here if you see that two different things I am doing in the exception handler, it is setting
this as a status and this as a body.
But in the response status, I am sending this as a let's say, the message or this as a status.
So this is which status will be picked.
And what is the flow?
Many times what engineer confuse that okay.
Response status means it would be handled by our resolver.
First is exception handler exception resolver then response status response resolver.
So what they do with this is that okay the first uh exception happen first control will come here.
It will set the status as forbidden.
Forbidden and message as you are not authorized, you are not authorized.
And after that, the control will comes to here, which will set like status, which will override it
status to bad request and reason as.
Invalid request.
Send.
Okay, so this is wrong.
Understanding.
Few things are happening in this.
You need to understand.
First thing we are sending response entity.
Yes.
The control first comes to the exception handler resolver.
Here it is creating a response entity itself.
So definitely it will not goes to the second resolver.
Okay.
And you already know from the uh if you goes to the first diagram itself sequence.
This one any time before even going to the second resolver it first check.
Hey does exception was handled by the previous resolver exception handler.
It won't go to the next resolver itself.
So here in this scenario.
So here in this scenario exception handler is able to handle the custom exception.
So the control will never goes to the response status resolver okay.
It will be here.
It will be handled by this only.
And it's creating a response entity itself.
And if you run this what output you will see you will see 400 bad request status is this message is
this invalid request.
And now the where problem comes here.
You are saying that response status will not get invoked.
Then shouldn't this forbidden should have come?
Why this bad request is coming?
This one response status one.
Who is handling this?
If this, not this resolver.
So here, if you see it is handled by your spring, uh, flow itself, a spring framework itself.
So see this one.
Exception handler, exception resolver.
First it invoke it, it handles it whatever the return value.
Return value is your response entity itself.
Okay.
After this it is handling the status response.
So not no resolver is handling it.
See the class servlet Invokable handler method.
It is spring framework which handles the response status afterward okay.
So whatever you have set forbidden.
And this it got override by this response status by Spring Framework itself not by resolver.
Resolver control will not even go because exception handler takes care of this exception itself.
So understand it very clearly that don't mix response resolver.
Once a resolver one particular resolver is handle it.
Second resolver will not get involved.
And once you mix this response status with exception handler, you need to only understand that it only
takes care of uncaught exception means this exception is not handled by exception handler.
Then it comes here.
Then only it will handle this uncaught exception, but this one custom exception is already handled
by exception handler okay so but response entity is response status is there after.
Exception handler exception resolver it gives the priority to response status so it get override with
this value.
Okay.
So exception handler exception resolver.
The same thing I showed you.
You can check the code.
The response status is done by spring framework not by the response status response resolver.
Again one more thing.
You will again Scratch your head.
Now, what would be the output of this?
Can you answer this?
So here, if you see that the same.
I am writing one exception handler same.
But only difference is I am now not returning response entity.
I am just setting the status and the message into the response.
Like through response, dot send error and setting the status and message in the response.
And also I have response status which is bad request.
So what it will print forbidden or bad request when the custom exception comes.
So custom exception comes.
It would be called by the first resolver itself.
Now this exception handler exception resolver it will set this forbidden response dot send error.
Then as per our previous understanding it would get override by this.
And we will say that bad request.
But here if you see that what it's coming 500 internal server error.
Why?
Because here, if you see that I am not returning response entity, I am doing response dot send error.
When you do response dot send error right?
What happen is let's say that user response dot send error.
What it does is.
It set the status.
It set the message and it commit also okay.
So it committed.
The response is committed.
Now you can't change it.
So now after that the code as from the code itself, we know that the framework after you done it,
our spring framework would now set to do response status.
And it will now also try to do here if you see what that servlet.
Right.
So there it will do.
Yeah.
So after this one it will try to do set response status.
It is spring framework, not resolver.
Again, it will do the same thing.
Send error the same thing.
It will again try to do commit.
So you can't commit again.
You will.
It will throw an exception.
So your exception handler exception resolver throws exception itself.
And that ultimately turns out to be an internal server error.
Let's see that.
I'll show you.
So here in the exception handler I am setting the response.
But now let's say that I am putting at the rate response status and value.
I would say that http bad request or let's say.
Bad request and reason.
I will put uh Invalid request sent.
And in the response status, let's say I am setting instead of exception reading from exception.
Let's say I'll put just for proper differentiation HTTP status forbidden and the message user ID is
missing exception.
Now let's see.
Start the debugger and put one debugger point at that servlet one also.
This one.
Let's hit it.
So first I'm throwing an exception.
Once an exception is thrown, control is to the overall composite.
Now after that exception handler over method exception handler got invoked.
It set the error.
So now this will commit it.
This will commit it.
Now, after that response status.
Now here, if you see, I'll put, uh.
Here, let me put debugger point here.
We have both.
Right.
I think control should come over here.
So here it try to do send error again.
As soon as it will do send error.
See exception comes inside exception handler.
Exception resolver itself.
So when ultimately the at this default attributes status is set as internal error.
Okay.
So you also have to take care of mine.
Like when you are using exception handler and response status together.
Use it wisely.
So that's why I advise never to use together exception handler and response status together.
But if let's say you have to use it like this, You have put an exception handler custom exception,
then put a response status and give them one responsibility.
Either the method should have got a responsibility to set a status and message, or give a response
status.
Only one of them you can't put also like response entity or response dot send error.
Follow one.
Either let response status do it or either in this code do it because you know that from the code,
whatever you set inside this method, inside this method, it will get override by response status.
So either use this or this to avoid confusion.
Okay.
And the third is default handler exception resolver.
This is very simple.
Like uh here if you see I am calling certain method which do not even exist.
I don't have any API.
Get hyphen user 3223 three.
The first it will goes to our composite because our controller even not reach.
Okay.
Dispatcher.
Servlet.
Not able to find the controller.
The control comes from first itself from composite orchestrator to it will pass through exception handler
exception resolver then response status response resolver.
And then the controller comes to your default handler exception resolver.
So here it will go one by one.
So what type of exception we are currently throwing.
It's a no resource found exception no resource found.
So ultimately it would like this got handled no resource found okay.
And it's the same thing.
It will do handle error response.
It will just send the error status and message Shh.
Okay.
For this exception.
So when the control comes here.
See, the status is 401404.
And messages, no static resource.
Get this.
So this will get set into the response.
And then default error attribute.
It will set a proper status and message okay.
No resource found this message.
So default.
So default handler exception.
Resolver is just like spring framework related exception method not found.
Resource not found.
Likewise.
Okay, so I hope this exception handling in spring boot is clear.
You can, uh, try it out like do with your hands.
You will find a lot of good things.
And if you have more doubts, please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
We can discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot : JPA (Part-1) ---

Hey guys on this side welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to see the Spring Boot JPA part one.
And let's start without wasting any time.
So here if you see that till now whatever we have done it's mostly a part of application logic.
Now we have reached to a stage where we have to insert data into the database, how we can do that.
So that's where the JPA, JDBC comes into the picture okay.
So before even jumping into JPA we have to first understand the complete sequence.
Right.
Who who what all components actually get involved into this.
So here if you see that let's say that you are writing a spring boot application.
You have an application logic.
You have written so many beans okay.
Now what you do is if you have to use JPA, what's the sequence?
What happen is you interact with the APIs, which is provided by JPL.
So always remember that JPL is mostly an interface, right?
It provided a APIs which you can interact with, but it do not provide you the implementation.
Implementation is provided by another component, let's say in this case hibernate.
Or if you don't want to use hibernate, there is something like open JPA, right?
Or there are I think eclipse Linq.
And so these are different implementation of JPA.
Okay.
So your application talks to JPA.
JPA internally has to be implemented by some other uh component which you decide which you want to use.
So generally hibernate is the most popular one.
So hibernate internally talks to or utilize JDBC API.
So again JDBC is again an interface.
So hibernate uses its.
API, its interfaces.
And then there are specific DB drivers.
So this DB drivers is nothing but an implementation of this JDBC APIs.
Okay.
So for example you are using a MySQL DB.
Okay.
You are using a MySQL db.
Then there would be a specific DB driver for it.
Okay.
Let's say it is connector Jay DB driver, which is very very specific for MySQL which knows how to connect
to MySQL.
And it provided the implementation of JDBC API.
Similarly, if you have something called uh Postgres PostgreSQL.
Okay.
Then it has its own DB driver.
It has its own DB driver.
Okay, so depending upon which DB you are using is specific.
That's why I written specific DB driver is required.
Okay, this DB driver is nothing but an implementation of JDBC API's.
This JDBC right Java database connectivity helps you to connect to a database.
Okay.
Through this API you can connect.
You can query, you can fetch the data.
Okay.
But remember JDBC JDBC is nothing but an API interface.
Actual work is done by drivers itself.
If you are using MySQL then MySQL drivers know how to fetch the data.
Okay then this JDBC.
Now there is something called ORM framework is built up object relational mapping framework.
So this is nothing but a bridge between Java object and your relational databases.
Okay.
So here if you see that in the JDBC and specific DB driver everything we are in the form of SQL right.
We write queries and we try to connect through db create db or fetch the data insert.
Everything is in SQL form.
But here with the ORM framework where this JPA and let's say it's implementation hibernate we are using.
If this comes into the picture we don't have to your application don't have to directly work with JDBC
API's.
You don't have to write SQL queries to insert.
You can directly work with Java objects itself.
Okay.
Through Java objects itself, you can maintain your relational databases.
So remember JPA, JDBC is just for maintaining relational databases.
So before going to JPA let's recall JDBC Java database connectivity.
Okay.
So here if you see that it provide an interface to make connection with db query db and process the
result.
Whatever the data we get out of DB, we also have to process it so it provide an API through which we
can process it, and implementation is provided by specific DB drivers.
If you are using MySQL DB then it has its specific drivers right?
So likewise.
So here if you see MySQL, if you are using this DB what is the driver connector J.
And this is the class we have to load for it if you are using Postgres SQL.
This is the driver and this is the class through which we can load this driver.
Similarly S2 which is in-memory relational database and its driver is this one.
H2 database engine.
And this is the class to load this driver.
So this driver.
Now anybody say that what is the driver.
You know that driver is nothing but an implementation of JDBC API's.
So this expose jdbc API expose that okay.
Get me connection uh insert let's say update delete.
But is it actually doing it.
No it's just an interface.
This driver is actually has all the implementation how to get a connection, how to insert it, how
to update it that from your application wise, you don't have to worry about the specific driver code
because you are dealing with JDBC API's.
You do just get connection.
Your application would do get connection.
Okay, you do update, let's say and update and you provide it.
It's provided us the interface.
Right now it's driver which is Abstracted to us how it actually converted to something, which is understand
by relational database.
We don't have to worry about it.
So you don't worry like okay, if I am using MySQL driver, my code will get changed if I'm using PostgreSQL.
Lot of code changes would be done.
No, nothing like this.
You already got it right.
Why?
Because we are dealing.
We are just invoking that get connection.
Now this specific driver will take care of getting the connection.
So if you change from MySQL to Postgres, your code will not change.
You are still calling get connection.
Only internal implementation will change and that's okay.
So you can use anything.
Okay.
So let's start very basic using JDBC JDBC without spring boot.
Let's say that if you are not using spring boot what how you would make a connection.
What are the challenges.
What that spring boot resolves, actually.
And once we know that, then ultimately we move to JPA.
So see this class first.
So very basic example I have created one public class database connection as the class name.
This is used to create a connection database connection.
So I have created one method called get connection okay.
And it's returning me the connection object.
So now here if you see that the first step in getting a connection is to load the driver is to load
the driver into the JVM.
So when you do class dot four for name and you provide the driver, this is the class.
Okay.
So I am using S2, this one in memory.
I don't want to install MySQL and started server for testing.
We can always use S2 And I told you that doesn't matter.
Like your code will not change at all.
Either you use MySQL, Postgres or S2.
Right?
You are just calling APIs JDBC APIs.
So the no matter what first step is you have to load the driver.
So I am using S2.
So S2 driver.
If you're using MySQL you have to load the MySQL driver.
So this is the first step.
Now once the driver is loaded into the JVM the second step is to establish a connection with DB.
Okay so here if I am using there is a class called driver manager.
And you do dot get connection.
So you pass the URL.
So now here if you see this URL we are using JDBC.
Yes.
What is the db type.
We are using S2 not MySQL not Postgres.
I'm using s2.
Even the S2 has two variant like in memory.
In memory is like once till your application is running.
Data is there in the DB as you as soon as your application shut down, data is also gone.
So it's a transient data.
So I'm using memory in memory like till my application is up.
Data is there.
As soon as my application is shut down uh the data will be lost.
There is another variant that you can even change it to that to persist the data.
Even your application, uh, shut down also.
So.
But I am using the transient flavor of it.
And this is the DB name which I want to create.
So I'm creating a user db.
So when I do get connection and give the URL, if this db is not there, it will create.
If it is already there it will do a connection for that one okay.
And username and password.
So default username for S2 is SC which is I think system administrator and password is nothing.
So you need this to get a connection of your database.
Okay.
So first is loader driver.
Second is establish a connection.
So this is two things are present into my database connection class.
Now here if you see another class which I have written user Dao class.
Okay.
In this Dao the first method I have like creating a table, generally understanding is whenever you
are running your application database is table is already present.
But since we are just starting, I have also created one method where I am creating a table also.
Okay, DB is already created here.
If not present it will create a db user db.
So inside this db it will create a table one method.
Second method I have written create user okay.
Third is I have written to read a user.
So three methods I have written.
So see what happening is like how you can do that.
So in this one first thing, whenever you have to query, insert, update, delete, create anything.
First thing you need is get a connection of a database.
So it creating a new database connection object.
So it getting an instance of this class and then calling the get connection method it calling this method.
What this method does is it will load the driver.
It will get one fresh connection of this database and provide this connection.
Once you got the connection then you can run the query.
So I have written one query create table users.
So I am creating a users table only with two column three.
Column one is user ID.
Which is auto incremented.
Another is username and the third one is age.
Okay so this is the table I am creating.
So here whatever the SQL query string you have created, now you just uh with this statement you just
execute update.
Okay.
So it will create your table.
Also notice that there is if any exception comes, you have to handle the SQL exception.
And in the final block you have to close the resources.
You have to close the statement.
You have to close the connection.
Similarly create user whenever you have to create one user.
Okay.
The first step is get the connection.
Create a new database connection instance and then call this method.
It will give you one connection database connection.
Then you write your SQL query which you want to insert into users username, age and user ID is auto
incremented already, so no problem in that.
So these two values I want to dynamically insert.
So I can use prepared statement.
Okay.
So connection dot prepared statement.
You provide this SQL query.
And here these two dynamic values would be set the values like set string.
First one is the string user name.
So index one provide the user name whatever it is coming.
The second uh the second question mark is that integer which is uh age.
So I'm doing set int index is two and the age whatever it is coming.
And then simply prepared query execute update.
So this will insert one row okay.
And similarly you have to catch the SQL exception.
And in the finally block you have to close the prepared query and the DB connection.
If you see the third method, read query the read users.
It is also exactly same.
So now I think now you are understanding the crux.
You have to get the connection.
Then you can use prepared statement and you can use this prepared statement uh to run the SQL query.
So I run the SQL query select from user.
So this is the SQL query string.
So connection dot prepared statement I provided this SQL query.
So there is no dynamic value.
So I don't need to set anything.
I just run prepared query execute query.
When I run this execute query it will give me a result set.
Result set is nothing but a list of rows.
So I am iterating and just concatenating just and printing it.
Okay, so you have to handle SQL exception and finally you have to close it.
Resources.
So this is very, very basic.
Uh, plain JDBC we are using no spring boot is used here.
Okay.
So I will show you running it.
But what is the problem you are seeing with this.
So there are so many boiler code we are writing.
First is driver class loading.
You have to load the driver right class dot four name.
Then you have to make a DB connection.
Now here if you see you are doing a data driver manager dot get connection.
Hey give me one connection of the database and you are providing the URL username password.
And this will get you one connection.
So you have to manually get the database connection.
Third is exception handling.
So here if you see what exception you are getting SQL exception This is very high level or abstracted
exception, I would say.
So SQL exception can be of anything.
Uh maybe uh primary key violation duplicate key found.
You are not able to insert like there are so many different ways through which your query fails, but
it gives a very high level abstracted error SQL exception.
So you have to do a lot of uh, kind of if else check.
Okay.
If this is the issue then okay.
Do this.
So here SQL exception I would say that it's not very clear okay.
Closing of the DB connection and other objects like statement.
So here if you see that every time you take out a connection or use a resource, now here you are creating
a prepared statement executing the query in the finally block.
You ultimately have to close the DB connection and close the prepared query also, because if you don't
do that, there is a possibility of memory leak also.
So as normal JDBC you have to handle the closing of the DB connection also.
And the last one is manual handling of DB connection pool.
So here if you see that currently every time somebody is calling new instance dot get connection I am
creating blindly creating one connection.
But it is not an ideal way.
Generally ideal way would be like okay, there should be one pool of JDBC connection.
Pool in which already I have pre-created few connections.
Use it once, use it, return it back to the pool.
So you have to manually add it or handle it.
DB connection pool.
Okay with the JDBC.
So these are the few issues with the plain JDBC.
But before I jump to spring boot JDBC.
How it handles it.
Let's see that.
So the plain JDBC the same thing.
I have database connection class first class uh loader.
We are loading it.
And then we are establishing a DB connection.
And in the user Dao we are creating a user table first.
And then I have also have a create user method and read user method.
Okay.
So every time I use it I handle the exception.
And also in the finally block I close it properly.
So I have just written the comment here.
So just to that we have to close it here.
So let's start the server.
Okay.
And here I have a user controller which is like plain JDBC is like get user call plain JDBC.
So here I am using get user this I am hitting this get API.
Okay.
Uh, so this get API just for testing purpose, you can say that don't go with like why in the get why
we are doing a create and this one.
So this is just for testing purpose that my control comes here.
So once the controls will come here.
So let me put a debugger point.
That means start in debug mode.
So here once the control comes here.
So what happen is I am creating a user object.
Now I am creating two users x and y.
So I am creating x and y.
And then ultimately I am doing read user.
So in the read user the same thing I told you write first, get an object of the connection and your
query and you can use prepared query to run this execute query and you can iterate it to print it here.
So I am Iterated it and return.
So success is printed.
And if you see the console log.
The two rows got printed.
This is the user ID which is auto incremented one and two.
This is the user name and this is the age.
Okay.
So this is currently in memory.
Now spring boot helps to remove all this boiler code for us.
So now let's see using JDBC with spring boot.
So the first thing you have to do is include the dependency in Pom.xml.
So this is spring boot starter JDBC.
Okay so this is for JDBC interfaces and all it will bring.
And the second dependency you need for this s2 s2 database we are using write in memory one.
So this is for the database.
You can replace it with Um, uh, MySQL or Postgres, whichever you like.
So currently I'm using in-memory S2.
So I'm, uh, added its dependency.
Okay.
So spring Boot provide JDBC template class, which helps to remove all the boiler code which we see
at top.
How.
Now let's see that once you have added the dependency now let's see this example.
So now here if you see the first I have created one basic Pojo of user user ID user name age and its
getter and setter.
Very basic user class.
Now the second I have created User repository class, I have given a name User Repository class and
annotated with at the repository.
It work as at the root component.
So it will help us to create a bean of user repository and also help us in the scanning of those bean
like what at the rate component does.
The second is that at the top in the plain JDBC you see SQL exception comes right.
But here this repository whenever a spring boot sees that okay it is annotated with at the right repository.
Any SQL exception comes.
It gives a granular level of exception.
Okay we'll see how.
So after creating this user class Pojo class I am creating a user repository annotated with at the repository.
And here if you see that I have added a dependency in this one of JDBC template, this is the class
which I'm talking about which helps us to remove all the boiler code.
So JDBC template I have auto wired it.
Okay, so bean will get inserted into it.
So here I have also have the same methods I have written.
One is create, one is insert and another is read three method same like above.
So create table.
Now here if you see JDBC template execute okay.
And you can directly write your query in the execute, you can directly write your plain SQL query itself
in the insert JDBC template dot update you provide your insert query.
Now if your Insert query is need to be like certain values which need to be dynamically filled, it
can be added like this.
There are different methods I will tell you don't go inside like how this update is used.
I will tell you what are the different ways but currently understand this like you are just calling
the method JDBC template dot update.
Put the query and all the values which has to be goes into this field.
And similarly get users.
What I am doing is I have written the query.
I am doing just JDBC template dot query and given the query.
Now here I am just iterating over the result set.
I will go later into deep what I am doing it.
Now the difference you might be seeing that I am not creating DB connection here.
Okay, I am not written any.
Finally block where I am closing the DB connection or closing the prepared statement.
Anything nothing.
All I am using is just JDBC template execute just for executing the query.
There is something like update where for more complex queries where you have to dynamically fill the
values.
And it also provides for read like query where which is used for fetching the data.
So this is your second class which you have to create.
And here if you see the service class which uses this, actually this is more of a helper class.
I would say that this is your business.
Logic class okay.
So this is I have annotated with the red component.
You can also annotate it with at the red service okay.
So I have auto wired this user repository okay.
Now anybody wants to create a table they will invoke this.
And ultimately it will call user repository create table insert user.
This will ultimately go and call this method get user ultimately this and call this method.
It will get the list.
Currently I'm doing my business.
Logic is I'm just simply system dot dot dot print and I'm writing and simply return the user.
Okay, so this class is nothing but a user service class is nothing but which is calling the repository
class.
Okay.
And it is your business logic class.
Like after fetching the data from the DB, any business logic you have to perform, you can perform
here at this level.
And the last is you have to use an application dot properties.
Now here if you see that we are providing certain properties data source property like I am providing
the URL.
So now here if you see at the top plane JDBC, you are providing the you are doing a connection and
then providing a URL, username password, driver link.
All you have to do here is in the spring boot is in this application dot properties you provide.
What is the URL?
The same thing.
This is your db.
I am using memory version of h2 and JDBC the driver username password.
Okay.
So now this data source this data source object data source object in spring boot helps with two things.
One is database connection.
It creates a connection, returns it, manage it, and also it helps with the connection pooling connection
pool.
Okay.
It manage the connection pool.
So this data source object.
So internally spring boot help us to do whatever we were doing.
Class dot for name.
Okay then do create a connection.
And everything is spring boot does it.
And surprisingly I will tell you spring boot also by default provide us a connection pool.
Also it is Hikari.
CP connection pool.
Hikari.
Connection pool.
I will show you the demo.
But before going, proceed further.
Is this clear?
Like how it is helping us resolving it.
So here if you see driver class loading.
Are we doing anywhere?
Driver class loading.
No, we are not in the spring boot JDBC.
We are not doing class dot for name and the driver path.
We are not doing anywhere.
This is just a business logic class.
So here if you see we are just directly using repository and application dot properties.
We are not doing driver class.
So JDBC template loaded at the time of application startup in driver manager class.
Let's see that.
So now let's see the driver manager class.
And I'm just starting an application.
So driver manager, what we are saying is JDBC loaded at the time of application startup itself.
So now I'm starting the application in debug mode.
Now here if you see during application startup itself it is doing class.forname for us.
Earlier we used to do in plain JDBC.
Now it is doing it okay.
And here if you see that it has the data which we provided all .2. driver in the application dot properties.
Okay.
So one thing is driver class loading is now get abstracted from us JDBC template.
Does it database connection making.
Now you can ask in this when is the database connection happening happen.
Whenever we run any particular query through JDBC template like like dot update query.
At that point of time it try to create a connection.
Okay.
So connection making from the either it has to make a new connection, it will create that time or it
has to take from the pool.
It will do that time itself.
Now let's say that insert user I am trying to insert.
So if you go inside this update, update this method it do execute.
If you go inside this it do this data source utils get connection okay.
So if you go inside this it will actually handles like the connection making do get connection from
the data source okay exception handling.
So exception.
In plain JDBC we get very abstracted SQL exception.
But in JDBC template we get granule error like duplicate key exception query timeout exception.
So if you go this package all dot spring framework dot Dao package.
So let's see that package.
If we see this package Dao or dot spring framework dot Dao package.
These are the different type of exception it provide cannot acquire lock exception.
Data access exception.
Data integrity violation exception.
Duplicate key exception.
Empty results exception.
So there are different type of exceptions can come.
Query timeout exception.
So all this JDBC template do mapping internally from.
Instead of just throwing SQL exception it throws a granular level of exception.
And through spring boot.
In the previous video I have already told you how you can handle exception of any particular type okay.
But you get some granular level exception and uh, you can handle it properly.
It is not very like abstraction.
Some SQL exception happen.
What we don't know.
Closing of the DB connection and other resources.
Now again you can ask me like in the spring boot JDBC we are just using JDBC JDBC template to execute
the query.
Okay plain query update.
But where are we closing it again.
That is handled by your JDBC template itself.
Now let's go to uh here let's say JDBC template dot update I am trying to insert right.
If you go inside this.
In the finally block it.
Do clean up parameters okay.
Okay.
So here it has a proper knowledge that whether I have to close the connection or whether I have to put
it back into the pool.
Okay.
So you don't have to handle it.
That is also handled by your JDBC itself.
And the last thing is, hey, what about the DB connection pool?
Still here?
I do not see where we are writing the connection pool logic like in a connection pool.
I have only this are.
Five JDBC connection pool and only this five would be used.
Who is doing that?
So here if you see when you have defined this application dot properties in data source.
Okay.
So means you are relying on spring boot that hey you use the data source see data source object.
Right.
It helps you to connect to the database and helps to manage connection pool.
But here we just provided like what is the driver.
What is the URL username password.
We didn't tell like what data source we want to use.
There are different data sources which we can use, but here we haven't told it so.
Spring boot use.
By default.
Hikari Data Source and Hikari Data Source also provide Hikari connection pool.
So now here if you see Hikari provide default JDBC connection pool that is Hikari CP connection pool
with minimum and maximum pool size of ten and we can change the configuration in Application.properties.
So in application dot properties you can put like spring dot data source.
Hikari maximum pool is ten and the minimum is five by default is 1010.
So here if you see we can check like how it is making a connection.
So uh Hikari data source whenever it will do get connection.
Let's see that.
Okay.
So Hikari data source.
It came.
So here, if you see Hikari pool, it is using connection timeout.
Idle timeout.
Maximum.
Maximum pool size ten.
Minimum is ten.
Okay, so spring boot.
Actually this Hikari is actually very efficient and it's very fast actually.
And no matter if you are using SQL, Postgres or S2, Spring boot by default uses this only, this data
source only.
But if you want to use any other specific JDBC connection pool, you don't want to use Hikari.
You don't you you want to use some other one, right?
Uh, maybe some from Apache or some, uh, something some other JDBC connection pool.
Then instead of putting into the application dot properties, you don't have to put into application
dot properties.
Then you can in your configuration at the right configuration class Appconfig App.config class.
You can create a beam of data source, and then you can use whichever data source you want.
Here in this example I am using the same data source only.
Okay.
But you can change it to any other JDBC connection pool which is available.
And you can use it on your own.
So here driver class name JDBC instead of now Application.properties I am providing the configuration
for the data source like this JDBC pool username password.
Like this.
Okay now here I don't need to provide in the Application.properties.
Now this data source would be used.
So currently here I am using Hikari only but you can use any.
You can replace it with anything.
Okay.
And yeah we can show the complete demo here.
So here if you see that let's see that I am calling this API JDBC DBC okay, first it will do.
Create table.
User table is created.
If it's not then user one is added.
User two is added and after that what it is doing is we are doing get user.
So we are using user service dot get user and this get user service layer calls repository.
It do get users.
So ultimately what are how many users we created two.
So I got a list of two users and I am iterating it and printing it.
So two times it printed and ultimately it returns list of user itself finish.
So here if you see two users it returns.
And also I was printing it so two users got printed okay JDBC template in spring boot has couple of
methods very frequently used method, I will tell you.
One is update and it takes two parameter, one is SQL string and another is where.
Where arc variable arguments okay.
So this update method can be used for insert, update and delete operation.
So like this insert into user.
So I have written my SQL query as a string and two dynamic values which I need to insert.
Okay.
So this is my string.
Now I'm using JDBC template dot update your query.
And second is variable arguments like variable arguments 123 could be anything right.
So two dynamic right.
So one is your string.
Second is your integer.
This one okay.
Similarly it can be used for update.
So this is one method very very commonly used method of JDBC template.
Another is this one for updating update the same your query and the second is prepared.
Statement setter says you can say it is also you can use for insert update delete.
It is just for like more granular level.
Or you can say that more.
If your queries are very very complex then prepared statement setter is can be useful.
The similar first thing is insert query like you can write your string okay, you have to set dynamic
values.
Now I am instead of using the previous.
I am now using prepared statement setter JDBC template dot update.
The first parameter is your string query.
Now second is prepared statement setter.
So here if you see uh JDBC template update string SQL.
So yeah, this prepared statement setter here, if you see it is a functional interface okay.
So you can use lambda expression and it has only one method which need to be implemented okay.
So one method which accept prepared statement.
So that's why I'm using lambda expression in Java playlist.
I have already explained it in depth how you can use lambda expression.
So here I am just providing the implementation for that get values itself that whatever the prepared
statement set the string, the first one is string username.
So for the first index it's string second index.
This one second is integer right.
So I'm providing h.
So this is one two.
This is our indexing 1234.
Right.
So this is one this is two.
Another question mark.
This would be three.
So this way you can add it okay.
So you can use it for insert update delete.
These are the two ways.
Similarly, now you have to fetch it right?
So one is query query method.
It takes one flavor is it takes two parameter.
One is string which is your SQL query.
Second is row mapper.
Now it is used to fetch get multiple rows.
You have to fetch multiple rows.
So now here if you see this query the JDBC template query.
The first one is your Select query string.
And the second one is your row mapper.
So this row mapper is a functional interface which has one method map row which takes two parameters.
So that's why this two parameters.
And whenever this method gets invoked this map row this is the implementation should run okay.
So see that what might be happening inside.
So in the user repository when I am doing get users.
Let's see.
It might be doing query it going inside query are here.
Execute query.
After it executed the query it got a result set.
So result set can be like ten rows 20 rows.
Then it has to extract data out of it.
Row mapper.
Now it is here.
If you see it is iterating over this each row set each row and calling the map row okay.
So now this will get executed.
For each row set there are total five rows.
Then for each row I am creating a user object and do a mapping like in the row this column row dot get
user id.
So I am putting into this user id field.
It's just a mapping between a column and the object user object.
So rosette dot get string is like username.
I am putting into username like this.
And ultimately it will return a list.
It will just keep on adding it to the result list and ultimately return this list of user.
The second flavor is query for list.
Again, first parameter is a string and second is class.
The purpose is to get single column of multiple rows single column of multiple rows.
So here JDBC template dot query for list.
Provide the query.
Select user name from users.
If there are total ten users, you will get username for all the ten users only, so one column.
Whenever you want to fetch the one specific column for multiple rows, then go ahead use this query
for list okay.
So the second parameter is class type.
So this username is string dot class okay.
So here if you see query for list and we can search for it here.
Query for list.
What it does get single column row mapper.
So it is a single column.
Its mapping is based on single column like a single type string.
Then the third query could be like query for object.
The first is your SQL query, then arguments and the required type get single row.
This is used for fetching a single row.
So JDBC template that query for object.
The first is your SQL query.
Select from user where user id equals to.
It could be dynamic.
So that's where your second parameter comes into the picture object array.
So I'm creating an object array only one right in the array.
So I'm putting like it should be replaced with one.
If there are more question marks you can just put into arrays, it will sequentially it will update
the question mark.
So it will change user ID equals to one with this.
And the third one is required.
Type is the object in which this row has to be mapped to.
So I want to map to the user.
So internally it will do mapping use make use of getters and setters of user.
And it will map this each column of this row into this user object.
And the last is like query for object SQL and required type get only single value.
It is used for get only single value like JDBC template.
Get query for object select count from user.
You do integer dot class.
So now here if you see it, return only one single value.
So if you have any requirement where you get only one single value, then you can use this get for object.
So these are generally different flavors which are JDBC template provides which you can do to insert,
update delete or fetch the data.
Okay so but with this I hope that at least this JDBC and this driver part should be properly clear where
this exactly comes into the picture.
How you can connect to the DB, what all problems are there in the plain JDBC.
What Springboot JDBC resolves is and how it resolves it, because then only it's makes sense to understand
ORM framework and JPA and hibernate.
Okay.
So next we will start with the ORM object relational mapping.
But we'll see you in the part two.
But if the part one, if you have any doubts let's discuss in the comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: JPA  | JPA Setup, Architecture and Entity Lifecycle ---

Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in the part two of the JPA, we are going to do some very, very important topics of it.
But before starting that, if you have not watched the part one which is the fundamental, then I would
suggest you that if you don't know about springboot JDBC, then watch out this video and I have shared
the link in the description section.
So let's start without wasting any time in the part one I have covered the JDBC.
Now let's start with the ORM.
So if you have watched the part one then you remember this diagram where the application your application
logic right there we were directly connecting with the JDBC right.
But now in the ORM this frameworks comes in mid between your application and JDBC.
So in JDBC we directly work with SQL.
Now because of the ORM framework which is object relational mapping.
This framework allows your application to work with the object itself and still you can manage your
DB.
You don't have to know SQL or you have to work with SQL.
So in the ORM framework there are two components JPA and.
Let's say in for now hibernate JPA is nothing you can say that provides an interface.
Okay.
And hibernate open JPA or Eclipselink.
These are nothing but an implementation of JPA.
Okay, so this is the default which Springboot uses for the implementation of JPA.
But if you want to use different, definitely you can override it.
Like you can provide that.
You want to use Openjpa or Eclipselink instead of hibernate as the implementation of JPA.
Okay.
So we have to understand the Architecture of JPA.
To clearly see what actually happens.
Underline.
Okay, so ORM, as I told you, it acts as a bridge between Java object and database table.
Unlike JDBC where we have to work with SQL, with this we can interact with the database using Java
objects itself.
Okay.
So I think definition is clear.
Now before I jump into this.
Architecture of JPA, let's first see one happy flow.
First like the complete what all things required to do a setup of the JPA.
And we will run one very simple program.
And because why this is required now.
Because once we have seen that right what all things are required to run one simple program using JPA.
And then when we internally go to individual component, we get more in line.
Okay.
Yes, this is how it was working.
The first thing you definitely need is dependency.
So here the first thing we have to add a dependency in our pom.xml.
And when you write this JPA dependency internally by default it brings hibernate dependency also.
So you don't have to uh, specifically add the hibernate dependency here.
This bring it with it.
The second part, as I told in the first video itself, you have seen it, the database connection properties
we have to provide here like what is the database URL.
And this is the DB name.
What is the driver username and password.
We already know each of this in depth like in the previous section.
So we have to provide the application properties.
So that's also we have done What is the third?
So the third is this one.
You have to create one entity.
This is the new concept right here in the JPA entity.
We will see in depth in the future video.
But for now I will tell you what entity is entity.
Consider this.
It's a Java class.
Entity is a Java class which is equivalent to a table in DB.
Okay.
So here if you see that I what db have created user db.
So I have user db.
Inside this user db there can be multiple tables okay.
There can be multiple tables.
So one tables which I created is user table okay.
So this is my user table.
User details table inside this user db.
And this table has these columns.
So these are the the fields of this class will be considered as a column for the table ID name and email.
This id I made as a at the rate id, which is I am considering as a primary key.
And that would be auto generated.
And whenever you create a new instance of it, let's say new user details means you are creating a row
inside a table.
So what is the table?
User details.
User details is your table.
And what are the column ID name email.
So these are the column.
And whenever you are creating a new instance means you are creating a new row.
Okay.
So this is the third step you have created.
So first is pom, second is Application.properties.
Third is you define all the entities.
Now this is the fourth which you require.
That is repository.
Okay.
So here if you see that I have created a user repository which is an interface.
And I have extended the JPA repositories.
So JPA repository, we will see later that it provide an interface and expose API APIs to insert get
modify.
Etc..
Okay.
So this is just a JPA repository already has so many APIs where you can do insert, insert some user
object, get the user details, modify it.
Okay, so we have.
Since this is a generic class, JPA is a like a generic class.
We have to tell like on which object it has to work with.
So that's why we have created one repository class and I have created an interface user detail repository.
And when I extended it I provided that okay this is for this entity.
Okay.
So this for for each entity generally we create one separate repository class okay.
And in the JPA repository we provide that specific object a specific entity class object.
That and why this separate class is also required is sometime we have to write our own queries like
uh jkl, jkl sometime we call it as JKL Java Persistence Query language, right?
Not SQL, JKL.
Or if you are using hibernate SQL hibernate query language, we have to define our own query.
We don't use to we don't want to use this predefined method insert get modified.
We want to write our own query.
Then you can write here okay.
So you can use this specific entity repository class.
Okay.
So this is the fourth thing you require.
Now that's all.
Only this one.
You have added the dependency, added the application properties, created an entity and created a repository
for this.
You are done.
Now all I have done is created a supported classes.
So one I have created a controller class and I have just exposed one API slash test hyphen JPA, so
that when from postman I hit I get a control over here, nothing much.
And inside that what I am doing is I am first doing save user.
Okay, so I have created one service class because controller talk to service and service talks to repository.
So that's generally the flow in spring boot right.
So I am just created a service class Last.
In that one.
I am connecting with the repository and in the service class I have two method save user and get all
user.
So from the controller when I am calling save user, it is calling this method and ultimately which
calls the user detailed repository user detailed repository dot save.
So ultimately which save method will call which is present into the JPA repository.
Right.
So it's already provide us a default methods which performs the operation.
And I have just provided the object.
Okay.
Similarly what after that what I am doing get all user.
So it will try to fetch all the users.
So it will invoke this method.
And internally it's calling find all.
So see find all is also present inside JPA repository.
So I don't have to write it.
So find all is also there and I'm utilizing it.
If you have any specific query which is not present in the JPA repository.
Then you can write it here.
But currently for a save and find all, we are using it.
Okay.
And now if I hit the API which one?
Slash API slash test hyphen JPA this API I hit the control will come here.
So first it will save the user.
This detail XYZ name is XYZ and the email is XYZ at the rate concept encoding.com, and then it will
fetch it and return it and ultimately output.
You will see here.
Okay.
We can also check the DB also.
So if you want to check the DB.
So currently let's say if you are using MySQL then you will start the server of the MySQL.
Right.
Then you know the path.
What is the path.
But if you are using S2 which is in memory okay then for that also we can view the console.
So for that these two properties we have to add into the application dot properties spring dot h2 dot
console Enabledtrue console I have to enable.
And what is the path for the console I have given H2 console.
So if you type this into the chrome uh http, what is your server running on.
And this is the path which you have given H2 console.
Your console will open and there you can see the details.
So here if you see what is the table I have created user detail.
What is the DB created user db.
So here user db user details.
And we have created.
When you hit this API you have created one row and then you are fetching it.
So here you see one row is created Okay.
So we can see that also.
Let's see.
We will do all this thing setup.
Then I will go to architecture so that okay so here first Pom.xml.
Let's open the Application.properties now not Pom.xml here.
If you see that I have already added the dependency.
So dependency is there.
First point is okay.
Then second Application.properties I have provided the database connection here, right how we used
to provide in JDBC, and I have provided the console for the S2.
And even I have written the that whatever the queries internally are running, I want to show it generally
in production we don't do this all this.
It's just for development testing.
So whatever the internally hibernate is running the queries I want to see.
So that's why I put spring JPA show SQL true and the hibernate format.
SQL, like hibernate, has its own format to show I made it true.
Okay, so this is our second point is completed application dot property is done then user details.
So here if you see that I have created a entity user details three columns.
It has ID name and email.
And ID are marked as primary key and its value would be automatically generated okay.
The default constructor is mandatory for this one.
And uh a Pojo.
Uh, it's a normal Pojo getter and setter.
So third is also done.
Then I have created repository here.
If you see I have just created a repository for this user detail.
If any specific, uh, specific query I want to write, I can write it here, but JP already provides
so many things like save, flush.
We will see one by one.
Like what?
All things required like find all, get by ID get one.
So if anything you already want to reuse, you can reuse it.
Okay.
And after that we have a service layer.
In service layer I am just uh including the dependency of repository.
And I have created one method save user which is calling the save method.
And I have one find by id.
It is calling this find by id right.
And I am not doing find all, I am just doing find by id I want only one.
So this method is also present okay.
And then ultimately to bring the control.
So don't go that why I am using get if I am doing save.
This is just for testing.
That control comes here so that we can test our flow.
So I created one controller.
I have included the dependency of service because controller always talked to service, not directly
to repository.
So here first I have created one instance of user detail when I said that instance means we are trying
to create one row.
Okay, so I created one instance of user detail.
I am now saving it okay.
And then I am trying to fetch it and return the user detail.
So let's start the server.
So here if you see first thing my server is started.
What you see here it is first dropping.
If exists this table okay.
And then it is creating this table.
So I told you that we are using S2 in-memory db.
So whenever you start a application existing data is dropped and the new tables are created.
So now let's also.
So till now application is started.
I am not hitting the query here.
Now here.
If you see I am hitting this, what is the path for the console?
We have given H2 hyphen console.
Right.
And this is on which my application server is running.
So I am hitting this one.
So this page will open.
Okay so you have to connect uh generic EC2 server.
Yes we are connect to generic one the driver, the URL which you are connecting to DB.
This is the URL we provided in the application dot properties.
You can check right.
This is the URL okay.
And the username is s-say.
Password is empty connect.
So now here if you see that one table is there user underscore details.
So one table is created.
Now if you run it currently it does.
It has any data.
No no data.
So now we let's hit one query test JPA.
Right.
So let's test it.
So we got the output and let's see the console.
It didn't insert it created an insert.
And if we check this now run it again.
One row comes okay there.
You might be asking right.
Hey I see only insert but in the controller we are first inserting it and then we are doing fine.
But why there is no select query it because of caching.
Uh, hibernate do first level caching that we will see later.
I will go in depth of that one.
That is very very important topic.
But internally it does fetch.
Okay.
So now we know what all things are required and how uh JPA basic save and fetch is working, but that
is not sufficient, like we have to know in depth of it.
That's where the things get complicated and interesting both.
So here let's start with the JPA architecture.
Or let's say that what are the components involved behind the scene.
The first thing is persistence unit.
Okay.
So here if you see persistence unit is what persistence unit is where we provide our configurations.
Like DB connections.
Okay.
What is the dialect we want to use.
What is the dialect.
Okay.
What is the driver etc..
We'll see that.
So all the configurations we provide into persistence unit and in spring boot what is the persistence
unit application dot properties.
So from that persistence unit, whenever you are starting an application spring framework, use that
persistence unit means Application.properties and it creates an object of entity manager factory.
Okay.
It creates an object of Entity Manager factory.
So you can say that this is in configuration format like Application.properties.
It convert into Java object okay and populate the fields.
And that object is known as Entity Manager Factory.
Now this entity manager factory use is to create Entity manager.
Okay.
So before I go to Entity manager understand the relation between persistence unit and entity entity
manager factory.
For there can be multiple persistence unit persistence unit.
When I say that multiple configuration for the DB.
Okay.
Like what is the DB connection, what is the dialect, what is the driver and etc..
Okay, so for one persistence unit you have one object of entity manager factory.
If you have more than one persistence unit, the equivalent number of factory would be created.
For example, you have two db.
Let's say I have one S2 and one is MySQL.
My application connects to both let's say.
So for this also I have one persistence unit.
And for this also I have one persistence unit.
Okay.
Generally when we use application dot properties.
There are lot of automation happens beneath which we which is abstracted to us.
Okay.
So whenever we are using application dot properties to define this DB connection dialect driver everything
spring boot considered that we have only one DB in an application, but if your application has more
than one db, then we generally advisable is don't use application dot properties.
Use at the rate configuration class and provide both the persistence unit or configuration properly
and connect to a proper DB.
Okay, so there can be more than one persistence unit present, and for each persistence unit we have
to create an entity manager factory.
We will see how.
Okay now you have created the entity Manager factory.
It's a Java object which has all the information why it is used.
See?
It's a name.
Factory.
Factory for what?
Entity?
Manager.
So whenever you required an entity manager object, it goes to the factory and get one.
But what is entity Entitymanager Entitymanager.
You can say that it's a session in hibernate.
It's generally known as session.
And in JPA terms it calls Entitymanager.
So in Entitymanager is the one where we have, uh, like you can say that expose an API like we provided,
right?
JPA repository above we saw JPA repository provided like uh, save method, find all and what else it
provide uh find by id so many thing okay.
And uh JPA repository.
If you see its implementation internally it connects with entity manager okay.
Entity manager also has many methods like persist okay.
So persist is used for save for find.
It might have something let's say query.
We can check, but I think it's query.
So if you are calling save method for the JPA internally it call Entitymanager dot persist.
Okay, so Entitymanager is nothing provides an interface where we have all the APIs which is used to
insert query.
Everything okay.
JPA repository is just a wrapper.
Above it I will tell you why we we need wrapper or if we want we can directly connect to the entity
manager also.
So somebody has to provide an implementation right.
So who provide the implementation for this JPA interface.
Persist query.
It's your hibernate.
So generally in hibernate there is a class called session impl.
So session impl provides an implementation for each.
Persist each query like if you want to fetch, there is a proper implementation for it.
If you want to persist, there is a proper implementation for it.
Okay, so in simple terms, whenever you have to interact with the DB, you want to persist, you want
to fetch.
You need an entity manager object.
Okay.
No matter even if you are doing JPA repository because internally JPA repository you are calling save
internally.
It required Entity manager object only to call the underlying JPA method.
So these are the actual JPA interface.
Okay.
So whenever you want to interact with the DB for persisting and fetching, you need entity manager object.
And who helps to create an entity manager object.
That is Entity Manager factory.
And if you see this it is one to many relationship means for every operation you need It possible that
you require many entity manager objects?
Okay.
It's possible.
Okay, so we might be creating multiple entity manager objects.
And each entity manager object creates a persistence context.
Okay.
So consider persistence.
Context is like this.
So you create.
Entity manager object.
And this entity manager this is persistence context.
This holds the entity.
So as from the name it's a entity manager the manager who manages the entity.
Now let's say that I want to update user entity.
User entity.
Okay I want to do persist I want to insert.
So I created new user entity I created one object of new user entity.
Let's say obj object.
Now I want to persist into the db.
I want entity manager object right.
Entity manager.
I go.
Let's say I got an entity manager object I call persist and I pass this user object.
So now here if you see whenever you are persisting right.
Ultimately whatever the objects which this entity manager is working on is stored here inside a persistence
context.
Okay.
So persistence context you can say that it's a placeholder for entities whatever the entity manager
is working on.
So now let's say that you have done user from DB let's say okay and ID one.
So you got it.
What you need definitely you need Entitymanager object you call Entitymanager.
And let's say you got, uh, let's say we will check the method.
Let's say you call get method, say get me the user detail which has id one.
Now you got an object.
So using this entitymanager you got an object.
So where this object is stored it is stored in the Entitymanager persistence context okay.
So you have an Entitymanager.
You have a persistence context.
And there you have object okay which is ID one.
Now you can update here.
You can update this let's say from uh name was XYZ.
You change the name to ABC.
So everything is happening inside a persistence context.
So persistence context is nothing but a placeholder for an entity okay.
Once you once you get it from the DB okay.
As soon as the entity manager got the hold of your entity, it stored inside this persistence context
and then you can work on top of it.
And from there, either you can store it into the DB, okay.
And you can remove it itself.
So I will tell you the entity lifecycle also.
But to understand this, uh, flow, consider that for every entity manager there is a persistence persistence
context.
And this persistence context only stores the entity which entity manager is working on.
So maybe entity Manager is updating three entity user user details.
Order details.
Invoice details.
Let's say okay I want to purchase this I.
So I'm using same entity manager object the same entity manager object I am persisting user detail I
am persisting this.
I'm persisting this or I'm updating this.
So somebody is holding this objects right where I have to like if I am working on this.
So I have fetched from DB.
I am now update doing some updation.
It's not there in the DB yet, but in memory I am doing it.
So somebody is storing this right?
Object.
Yes, entity manager stores it, but where inside a persistence context object.
Okay.
And if you remember from the first I told you right.
Why there uh, there was only insert call.
There was no Select query happen.
I told you first level caching happened.
So this persistence context helps into first level caching to how I will explain in depth.
But this also helps in the first level caching because it only stores the entity even though it's not
there, it's there in the DB, but it's uh, you are working in memory, you are updating it.
So persistence context.
Hold it for the entity manager.
Okay so entity manager.
Whenever you have to interact with the DB you need one entity manager object.
And for each entity manager persistence context is created and through which holds the entity.
And once it is done, ultimately dialect comes into the picture.
And what is dialect is.
So I told you right.
Uh, earlier uh, JDBC is the underlying framework okay.
It works with SQL.
Now ORM comes into the picture in mid and JDBC doesn't understand the language may be Jpql or SQL.
So somebody need to translate that into SQL.
So that dialect helps into that okay.
So dialect is like uh from this diagram, you can get to know that hibernate talks to JDBC, but JDBC
only understands SQL and hibernate works in either Jpql or Hql.
So somebody needs to do some translation right?
That's where the dialect comes into the picture.
And you can ask me like hey uh, like in the application dot properties, we haven't defined any dialect.
I told you, right.
Whenever we are using Application.properties, we are assuming that only one DB, we are connecting
to only one DB and there are lot of auto configuration happens.
So Spring boot automatically picks proper dialect for us.
But if we are not using Application.properties and we are using at the configuration class, then we
have to define everything.
Okay.
Ultimately dialect comes into the picture, dialect talks to JDBC and ultimately JDBC talks to Db1.
one.
So we have to see each and everything properly.
But let's start.
First thing is pom add your dependency.
Okay.
And this will bring hibernate dependency to.
Then let's see persistence unit first.
So it's what it's a logical grouping of entity classes which share same configurations.
Okay.
So persistence unit means let's say I have 100 entities.
I have 100 entities.
Entity one, entity two.
Entity 100.
So let's say this one to entity 40 shares.
The same configuration means they they want to go into the same DB let's say S2.
Now entity 41 to 100 are sharing the same configuration.
They have to go inside MySQL let's say.
Okay.
So what we do is one persistence unit means logical grouping of entities will share same configuration.
So we can have one persistence unit for this one persistence unit for this.
So if you are not using spring boot generally you create a persistence dot XML file like this.
So you create a persistence unit.
You provide some name here you provide a transaction type.
We will see what is this transaction type resource local means one db transaction is scopes to one db.
So from the previous transaction uh video you know that right?
Whenever we create a transaction begin commit its scope is specific to one DB only DB one okay.
If you have more than one db db two the same transaction transaction one will not work.
Okay.
It can scope to only local to a one DB.
So generally that is resource underscore local.
If you want transaction to scope to multiple db we have to use JTA not resource local but we will see
later.
So we will type what is the transaction type.
We will group all the entities which you want which is going to share the below configuration.
So let's say I have created two entities.
Sample entity one.
Sample entity two.
So this is like a grouping.
Then what is the provider I want to use.
So here I want to use hibernate provider.
You can even use eclipse link Openjpa like this.
Currently I'm telling you if you are not using spring boot you have to define like this.
And the properties properties like what is the dialect?
What is the driver db username password like this.
But in spring boot we don't create persistent dot XML if you have only one DB, one application, one
db, you can use application dot properties.
Inside this you have already seen how we can create data source.
We can create db driver username password okay.
And here generally if you see this is optional we haven't defined previously okay.
But you can provide a package to scan.
So it will this all entities which is in this package it will scan okay.
But generally this is not required because Spring boot look for all at the root entity annotation.
So you don't have to provide specifically provide a package okay.
Then this is also not mandatory that you don't have to provide.
What is the hibernate provider.
What is the JPA provider you are using?
If you want you can specifically provide hibernate persistence provider if you want to override it,
but if you don't provide it, it will automatically use this.
Similarly, what is the dialect you want to use?
Provide a proper dialect.
Okay, a dialect.
You already know what is used for converting the Jpql or SQL into the SQL.
But if this is also an optional because if you don't provide it a spring boot automatically pick uh
appropriately.
And similarly you don't have to provide transaction type.
This is the default it will pick until now unless you want to override with JTA.
So resource local is or whenever you create a transaction begin commit.
It's always scope is to one DB only.
Okay.
So that's why we haven't we only define this.
We didn't define all these things.
Spring boot automatically take care of all these things okay.
And always remember that application.properties means only one persistence you can have means only one
DB.
Okay.
Now let's see that entity manager factory.
You can also say that.
Hey, what if I want more than one persistence file in spring boot?
How to create it?
I will show you with this one example I will show you now the second comes into the architecture is
after persistence is entity manager factory.
So using persistence unit configuration.
Or you can say that using Application.properties configuration entity manager factory object get created
during application startup itself.
If any property is not provided, default one is picked and set one.
Entity manager is for one persistence unit.
This class act as a factory to create an object of entity manager.
I have already explained Entity Manager Factory.
So here if you say this is the class, when you start an application to debug a point in this class
in this method.
Okay.
So the control will come here.
There you will see that from the persistence unit it is creating the entity manager object.
Factory object.
Okay.
And if you say that hey what if we want to manually create an object of Entity Manager Factory?
I don't want this spring framework.
So currently see this spring framework is creating.
So spring framework will reading from application dot properties and from application or properties.
Whatever the properties you have provided, it creates into one only one persistence unit.
And from that it creates an entity manager factory.
But if I want to take the whole control how I can do it, that I create one at the configuration, let's
say I call it App.config one.
Okay, in that one.
Now you know that whenever you are creating a configuration now spring auto configuration not comes
into the picture.
You have to provide everything.
So you have to first provide your data source, driver name JDBC username, password.
Like we were already seen this in the JDBC.
Like what?
All things are required for connection.
Once you have a data source, you need also one bin for JPA vendor.
So I am creating a hibernate JPA vendor.
And what is the dialect I want to use.
So you provide here.
And the third is like create a object for this factory.
So I created this entity manager factory.
There I am setting this data source like data source and JPA vendor which I created here.
This is the data source and this is the JPA data vendor the same I mentioned here.
So I set the data source.
I set the vendor.
What is the package you want to scan, and any unique name you can give to your entity manager factory.
Now here, if you see I created the object, not a spring boot.
And here application dot properties is not present.
I am using at the rate configuration.
If you want to create another persistence unit, you can write another configuration and app config.
Let's say two or give proper name.
Let's say MySQL config.
Let's say this is h2 config class name.
And you can provide its proper data source, its vendor, and then you can create an entity manager
factory okay.
So you can create as many entity manager factory for each persistence unit.
All these configurations are considered as a persistence Unit.
Okay.
So now, till now, we have created an object.
Now one more thing.
The transaction manager.
Now you are saying that.
Hey, why transaction manager coming into the picture and how it is associated with entity Manager factory.
So for each entity manager factory you know that you have a DB let's say H2 MySQL.
We have one persistence unit.
We have one entity manager factory.
We have one persistence unit.
We have entity manager factory.
And now there come one more transaction manager one transaction manager for H2, one transaction manager
for MySQL okay.
Now this transaction manager, when we are saying one transaction manager for H2, one transaction manager
for MySQL, it's like resource local.
We are using whatever the transaction this will generate.
Okay.
We are we are getting an object of a transaction.
Then we are doing begin commit.
All this transaction is scope is to this DB only whatever the transaction is generated by this transaction
manager, then you do begin and commit.
Its scope is to this MySQL DB only.
But if you use JTA then it's like persistence unit entity manager factory persistence unit, entity
manager factory.
Then you have let's say uh DB you have MySQL, but you want one transaction manager.
Okay.
That's what JTA does.
Okay.
So JTA has a scope of multiple DB whatever.
You have registered the entity manager factory for H2 and for MySQL so it can take care of the transaction
for those span across multiple DB.
But if you want to use resource local so those no matter how many persistence you need to have, they
have a specific transaction manager.
So during persistence unit we have specified the value of transaction type resource local or JTA.
So if you don't provide an Application.properties by default it will use resource Local.
This is the by default spring boot uses.
If you want to use something else like JTA you can override it.
So it is of two types.
One is which managing the transaction for one DB, another is which managing the transaction which can
span across multiple DB's.
Like what if you remember from the high level design playlist two phase commit.
So JTA does internally two phase commit only.
So here I will show you.
During application startup only after entity manager.
Factory object created.
Now based on this app transaction type resource local or JTA transaction manager object is created.
One entity manager factory.
One transaction manager is created.
So here if this.
See this one transaction manager for managing transaction for one DB.
So in the Application.properties here if you see I have provided resource local.
So now when you start an application right the control goes here into the JPA transaction manager.
Now if you remember from my transactional video you know this hierarchy of the transaction, right?
JPA transaction manager comes here.
So here if you see this JPA transaction.
So there are two JPA and JTA transaction manager okay.
So currently if you are using resource local.
If you are using Resource Local, it creates an object of JPA Transaction Manager, which is a specific
transaction specific to one DB.
Okay.
And we can also manually do it.
Now you already know how to manually.
You have to create one configuration class.
You need data source.
Which vendor hibernate vendor.
You create an entity manager factory.
And after the entity manager factory object you have to create one more bean.
For JPA Transaction Manager, you create a new object and you pass the factory object.
So from this factory, because this factory has everything, what DB it need to connect and everything
which is required for the transaction manager.
Because transaction manager is directly associated with your DB, transaction manager is directly associated
with DB, so it knows what DB it need to connect to.
Okay.
And the use case two is the transaction manager for creating transaction, which can span across multiple
DB.
So that's where the JTA comes into the picture.
So I will no not go JTA at this time because it's again a big topic.
I have to cover many things like Atomix exadata source.
Okay.
And then two phase commit I also have to little explain.
So it will out of the context for this one.
But at this point we can understand that transaction manager is created also.
And it has 1 to 1 relationship with the entity manager factory.
Okay.
And this is based on your persistence file only application dot properties.
So all the above steps happen during application startup itself.
So now let's say that.
I have application dot properties right.
Now let me put into debugger point here into Entitymanager factory.
Since I am starting an application.
So here, if you see the first control comes here from to this creation of Entitymanager factory.
So it is getting created from this persistence unit info.
Whatever we have provided in application dot properties from that Entitymanager factory is getting created.
After that here if you see the control comes to JPA Transaction manager.
And based on this entity manager factory, it is trying to find the entity Manager factory here.
If you see right based on the persistence unit and it will create an entity manager which is JPA Transaction
manager.
And after that your application is started.
Okay.
So whatever we have seen till now, it's till before the application startup like before the application
got startup.
So we have understand what is persistence unit.
What is Entity Manager factory and what is also transaction manager comes into the picture.
Now your application is started.
Now here comes the usage of entity manager and persistence.
Context.
Very important.
So entity manager is what.
It's an interface in JPA that provide methods to perform Crud operations on entities.
It just provides methods persist.
Merge.
Find.
Remove.
Create.
Query.
So persist is for saving.
Merges for updating.
Find is for fetching.
Remove is for deleting.
Create queries for executing JPL queries.
We see entity manager.
So entity Manager is nothing but an interface.
This entity manager has all this methods abstract methods like no definition.
It's an interface write.
Remove.
Find.
There are different ways through which you can interact with the DB.
And who provides the implementation for it.
So here if you see hibernate.
So this session impl in hibernate you can say that Entitymanager is called as session.
So it's like a implementation is provided by hibernate.
If you are using Openjpa you will see something other class which is providing the implementation for
your entity manager's methods.
And also if you see our repository which we created here, if you see whenever we were calling, let's
say save whenever we were doing save internally it is connecting to Entitymanager only.
So you can ask right then why we are interacting with JPA repository, why we can't directly interact
with Entity Manager?
Yes, we can do that.
But JPA repository, you can say that provide certain extra benefit like it has some predefined method
like find all, delete all there you don't have in Entity Manager you might have to use some uh some
business logic.
You have to add like list of IDs.
You might have to send something there.
In the JPA repository we have pagination and sorting capability.
If you are directly using entity entity manager you have to build those capability.
And also if you see that uh, there are certain methods like insert, modify, delete for these operation
entity manager required at the rate transaction.
So this is must if you don't provide at the rate transaction for these operation, entity manager will
block it.
It will throw an exception.
So entity JPA repository automatically adds it up.
So here if you see that in the JPA repository, if I am calling save.
So inside save it automatically call at the right transaction before calling.
Persist like an insert.
So you don't have to worry about it.
Okay.
And start and close of entity manager.
So we also don't have to no need to manage it.
Like hey I have created an entity manager.
Do I need to close it or do I have to keep it open?
You don't have to worry about it.
If it is required to close it, it will close it.
If it is not, it will not close it.
So you don't have to worry about managing of entity manager because you are not directly interacting
with entity Manager now.
So there are many business logic which is kept inside JPA repository.
Okay, so one thing is you clear, right.
This is the actual JPA.
You can say that interface to interacting with the DB.
Okay.
Or I would not say that directly to the DB.
You can say that it is like for persisting merge find.
Internally it is implemented by your provider like hibernate.
Their hibernate provide a logic which ultimately talks to JDBC and ultimately data is stored to DB.
So if I call it these are the actual methods JPA provide through which you can interact with DB.
But internally you know that what's happening goes to hibernate.
Implementation provides the implementation.
Do a dialect then goes to JDBC and then DB.
Okay.
But now these are abstracted to us.
These are all abstracted to us.
For us.
If you want to insert we have to call persist.
Okay.
Entitymanager interface methods are implemented by JPA vendor like hibernate.
Entity manager factory helps to create an object of Entity Manager.
Okay, so considered entity manager is like without this you cannot interact with the DB.
If you have the object of this.
Then only you can interact and when you have an object of this means you have created one session,
you have created one session and that's why you can interact with DB.
That's also we can say that's why in hibernate it is known as session.
Create a session means you are creating an object of entity manager, which now you created one session
with your DB.
Now you can interact it and if you close the session means you are closing the entity manager.
Now you can't interact with the DB.
That's simple as it is.
And persistence context I told you right?
Consider it as a first level cache for each entity manager.
Persistence context object is created which hold the list of entities it's working on.
And during the start itself.
I explained you this.
It also manages the life cycle of an entity.
So here if you see entity manager, insert, update, delete operation or transaction bounded I told
you it first check if transaction is open.
If not it will throw exception like but read operations are not transaction bounded okay only insert
update delete and like other.
So here take an example okay so I have created one simple service class which is interacting with user
repository.
So here user repository here this is it is interacting with.
And you know that internally JPA repository I show that all insert update methods are annotated with
transactional.
So this is now save method which comes here.
This is the save method.
Internally there is an implementation for save method which comes here.
So here it has automatically annotated with transactional.
So you don't have to worry about putting this.
What if I directly call entity manager.
Okay.
Instead of a spring framework.
So how you will do it.
Now let's say that in service instead of my repository I am creating a entity manager.
So generally entity manager if you are creating it your generally it uses like a persistence context
annotation.
It is like persistence context like there is a it is all to do auto wired but internally some business
logic like some validation.
So now if you try to call entity manager dot persist okay.
What would would happen is it will throw a validation that transaction required exception.
There is no transaction.
So if you go to this, the annotation interceptor, it will auto wire this entity manager object.
Plus it has some business logic where it will check the validation that hey, is there any transaction
open if no entity manager will fail?
But what if I add the transaction at top of it?
It worked properly.
Okay, so that's why I told you that we generally use JPA repository because it has lot of business
logic inherited.
We don't have to work those business logic.
If you are directly dealing with entity manager, there are lot of things you might have to consider
also.
And there might not be the methods which are available like pagination, sorting and also the batch
method like find all, get all, delete all, all those things.
And also I'll tell you a life cycle of entity in persistence context.
So now you already know that whenever we are creating an entity manager object, we will see when entity
manager object is created and all.
But remember that whenever Entity manager object is created internally, it creates a persistence context
also.
Now this entity manager you are trying to let's say persist entity one, persist entity two some modify
entity three.
So you are working on three entities.
So it put a placeholder for entity one, its object, entity two its object, entity three its object
okay.
And on time to time it will persist to DB whenever required till you are working it and not updating
it to the DB.
It's there into the persistence context.
So this is the life cycle of an entity inside a persistence context.
So whenever you are creating a new object.
So there are two ways an object can go inside a persistence context.
One is this is the first way you are creating a new object.
So when you created a new user entity, it's it's called a transient state or new state.
Whenever you want to persist into the DB, you want a entity manager object and you call persist.
Now it first goes into.
Persistence context.
It don't it don't directly goes to DB right from entity manager.
Persist this don't directly go here.
It first create a persistence context for this entity manager put this here.
So means it is now first goes to manage state.
Now here means it is inside persistence context object.
and from there, ultimately it goes to the DB.
That is one way.
So persistent content still has it.
So whenever any Get query happens you know right.
Whenever get query happens get you know right.
That's why it first you call the get method of transaction manager.
It don't directly goes to the DB.
It first goes to persistent manager.
So persistent manager know that hey do I have this.
Am I managing this object entity.
If yes and it is valid it will return.
It will not goes to the DB.
So you know right.
Persistent context is also help in first level caching that I will tell you in depth.
Um but here consider that the first way is to insert into the persistence context is create a new object
which is in transient state.
And then your first time persisting it, it got added into the persistence context and then ultimately
goes to the DB.
The second way is data is already present into the DB and then you are doing get get me one.
Hey entity manager.
Dot get query one.
Now persistence.
Persistent contact doesn't have the entity.
So it has data is present here.
So it will first fetch it and then put it inside it.
This is the second way through which data can comes into the persistence context manage which is called
say that manage state.
Now persistent context is managing it okay.
After that you can let's say remove it.
You want to delete from the DB.
But ultimately it's not uh, you want to ultimately delete from DB, but currently it's not persisted.
So it can go to remove the state.
So you call the remove method Entitymanager dot remove.
So what it will do is it will change the state of from this manage to remove.
But DB it is might be still active because it is not pushed to DB yet.
And when it ultimately do flush internally, then actually it get persisted that removed.
Okay.
But there are chance that before you do flush, if you want to take it back, you can again move it
to manage state through again call persist on it.
Okay, so maybe you called remove, but you change your mind.
Hey, you want it back?
You can change this back to the manage state.
Ultimately, DB will only get updated when you have internally called flush and then all the changes
into the persistence context.
It will sync up with DB.
Also, if let's say you have a persistence context, now you detach it.
You don't want your entity to be managed by persistence context.
You can detach it manually or you can close the entity manager itself.
Entity manager dot close.
Whenever you do close, this entity get removed.
What user entity get removed from here?
Now it is detached.
Now it is your responsibility to sync it with the DB.
It's not responsibility of the JPA to insert into the DB.
Once you detach, it means you are taking the responsibility that for this entity I will take care of
responsibility.
I will manage it.
But till it is in manage uh state JPA your persistence context is managing it.
It will take care of properly syncing to DB.
Time to time and after detaching.
If you want to put it, you can call merge and it will again goes back to Control of a JPA and it is
in state managed.
Okay, so from removed also state it is possible to goes to detach state like you can close it close
the entity manager itself.
So you can know that this entity goes to various states inside a persistence context.
So that's why we say that the persistence context manages the lifecycle of an entity.
So it will keep it.
And you perform operation on it.
And it will update the DB like this okay.
Okay.
So I hope that with this you would be able to set up JPA.
You would be able to run one flow.
And while running the flow you at least know how it is running internally.
Okay.
Now we will go with the part three of JPA which is like first level of caching.
See you soon.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: JPA | First Level Caching ---

Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And in the previous video, we have already seen the JPA architecture and its life cycle and how to
set up.
In this video, I'll tell you a very important first level caching.
But if you have not seen the previous video, I would highly recommend it because it's totally dependent
on it.
In case if you missed it, I will just briefly explain the life cycle.
I will not again tell in depth just one use case, because without this first level, caching would
be incomplete.
If you have not watched the previous video and directly jumping here.
So just to maintain a context, uh, let me take two minutes to quickly revise the life cycle of it.
So here, just with the very simple one example, I will show you this.
Let's say that I am creating user entity.
A equals to new user entity.
This is my one user entity created I am creating a transaction, okay?
And I am doing begin.
I am doing entity manager dot persist a this object.
Then I am saying that okay I want to remove it.
Entity manager dot remove a.
Then again I change my mind.
Hey entity manager dot persist okay.
And then I say that commit finish.
So what would happen as per the lifecycle of this.
So whenever you are creating a new entity it is currently in the new state okay.
So when you created a transaction and calls the entity manager dot persist means you want to insert
into DB.
You are not directly dealing with the DB, so Entitymanager is provider API and its API is provided
by hibernate session impl.
In that first it will goes to persistence context.
So this is your persistence context.
It will manage this entity.
So currently a is over here okay.
It's not there into the DB even though you have called persist remember.
Now let's say that you have called remove.
Hey I want to remove it.
Delete it.
So it will goes to a new state called remove.
So again it is inside a persistent context.
But state of the entity has been changed.
Now A is present here.
Its state has been changed to remove.
But again it's not there into DB.
Remove means whenever the data is flushed it will get removed from the DB.
From your perspective, you have first inserted and then you are removing it.
But actual DB is not yet comes into the picture because everything is currently happening in the persistence
context.
Now you said no, no, I want it again and I want to persist it.
So it will again goes back to the persistent state.
Now A is here.
So you know that your entity state, entity state.
Or you can say that life cycle is current from new to manage to remove or you can even detach it.
Okay.
You can do whatever.
But once you do commit means you are flushing it to the DB.
You are syncing it with the DB.
If it is managed then you are flushing it.
It goes there and insert it.
If it is already there, a is already there and it is in removed state.
Now you do flush, it will remove it.
Then it is actually removed from the DB.
So till commit means commit is the time when actual flush happen.
So till flush happens everything is handled in memory.
That's handled through persistence context.
And that's what helps in the first level caching.
So now let's see one example.
So very very basic example which in the previous video we have created.
So I have created one test JPA interface API.
There I have created a user.
Okay.
Now I am trying to save it into DB.
I am calling the user service API and after inserting I am doing a select query.
So this is my expectation.
First I am inserting and and then I am fetching.
So during insert I am calling User Detail Service Save and internally it is dealing with user repository.
User detail repository is just an interface which I have written which extend JPA repository.
That's all.
So this is very, very basic, which we have already seen.
Now, if I start an application now I am starting an application.
You will see that the first it drops and create a table because we are using in-memory DB.
Okay.
Now I am creating hitting this API test JPA.
So what is the expectation before I hit expectation is first it will insert, then it will make one
select query.
Let's hit it.
So here if you see that we are able to see the data.
Now we are able to see one insert.
Yes.
But where is the select query.
Why there is no Select query is there.
But how come I am able to fetch the data.
It's because of cache.
Okay, so what is happening inside how the first level caching works.
So let's see what is happening.
So when this API is invoked when this API is invoked, what it is doing is.
What it is doing is it is first calling save user okay.
So when the save user is happening so it is calling this JPA repository save user okay.
So internally you know that right.
What would happen.
So inside a save user.
Internally it's using an entity manager calling persist okay.
Internally it is calling.
Entity manager dot persist.
Now if you remember I told you that whenever entity manager persist is there.
So this is nothing but a method interface session impl.
Is the one hibernate provide an implementation for this.
Persist.
And when the persist is happen Pun.
We are creating a persistence context.
Okay.
And this persistence context, whatever the object entity you want to create it first hold it.
Okay.
So you never interact directly with DB.
If you understand this lifecycle, you will get to know that DB only comes into the picture when we
do commit.
When we do flush.
Till then everything is there.
State of the entity is there by the persistence context only.
So we can say that one entity manager equals to one persistence context.
If you have two entity manager it will have another persistence context.
So 1 to 1 mapping.
And the second persistence context is totally isolated from one other.
There is no interaction if any data is present here.
This data is not visible to us.
Okay.
So now in this, what happening is when you are doing uh doing save user internally it is calling Entitymanager
dot persist.
So means it is able to find an Entitymanager.
First it is able to find an Entitymanager object.
So means Entitymanager is there.
And when it is doing persist internally, it first creates a persistence context and it stores the data.
This entity user details is stored there.
Okay so let's see that.
So here it calls save user.
So internally it calls this and the control comes to this save right.
This is what simple JPA repository right.
We are calling JPA repository itself User service.
And user service is calling JPA repository.
So it will comes here.
Now here it is calling Entitymanager dot persist.
So you know that it will go into the session dot impl.
And from that session it will create a persistence context.
So now here if you see it is adding the entity.
So it will put in in the map.
It will put if it is absent.
What this key.
What is the key.
This user which you are trying to insert.
This one.
This user which you are trying to save.
So it will create a key and it will insert into the map and the object is your complete object.
Okay.
Now data is present here.
Now data is present here from earlier.
You created a new object you call persist.
Now data is present here.
Save is annotated with at the rate transactional means.
If you remember from the transactional video there is transactional interceptor which do begin and commit.
So means commit has happened.
So at this time, flush would have happened, so it would have inserted.
Make one insert query also.
So data is there into this are persistent and it has flushed into the DB also.
Now DB is in sync.
Now you are doing get query.
So one insert query is done.
One Insert query is done.
Now you are doing get user again.
When you are doing a get user okay by primary key, what happens?
Let's see that when we are doing uh get user or let's say that find by id one one id I am trying to
fetch.
Right.
So internally what it does again Entitymanager.
So currently it is trying able to find the same Entitymanager object.
Okay.
So this is also working with the same Entitymanager which this is working when this same entity manager
is you are working with means the same persistence context it is aware of.
And if that persistence context has that data, it will not even goes to the DB.
So when the get user happens.
So what would happen is when you call find by ID, get user internally it call find by ID and find by
ID.
You know that session ID and session impl internally calls persistence context and there get entity.
So whatever the key map we have created it.
Try to fetch the key.
Now here since it is the same entity manager we are using the same entity manager, same persistence
context is used and that's why it is able to fetch the data.
So no select query.
No select query is hit it returned from the cache.
Now you can ask me a question that.
Hey, Sharon, how the same entity manager is used.
I show you in the dispatcher.
If you go a little deep, the you will already get to know if you go inside.
Dispatcher servlet.
You know that dispatcher servlet is the first controller.
So in the dispatcher servlet there is something called apply pre handle before it actually invokes the
controller.
There is a pre handle and this pre handle here.
If you see whatever the during application is start up.
In the previous video we have seen right.
It creates an entity manager factory.
It fetches that factory and creates the entity manager.
So for each HTTP request one entity manager is created by default.
Remember that right?
So I have created one HTTP request.
Now if you see now when I call the first like test JPA.
When I call this API, one HTTP request means one entity manager and one persistence context.
Okay.
Now whenever I do db query save get right.
So the same entity manager is used means same persistence context.
So whatever the data is is present into the persistence context it will return me okay.
Now here if you see I have created one more API read JPA.
It is doing direct get user this same only it is trying to fetch if I call new API slash read hyphen
JPA.
New API means new http request I am hitting.
I am hitting new API right?
New HTTP request.
New http request means second entity means new entity manager.
It will create and new entity manager means new persistence context.
And it do not know about the data which is present into another persistence context.
so it will make a Select query fresh select query.
Here it will make a fresh Select query here.
Let's see this one.
Okay so in the entity controller I have two APIs one test JPA.
This has save user and find by ID.
And then I have read JPA.
There I have two select query two times just two times.
Fine okay.
And also let me put a debugger point in stateful persistence manager add entity.
It's there.
So I am starting a debugger point.
So when I started the application you know that fresh table started because we are using H2 database
in memory.
Now I am first calling test JPA.
I am hitting it.
So see I am trying to do first save because test JPA.
What is the functionality we are first inserting and then query.
So first inserting it goes inside.
Save.
Okay so entitymanager.
So it goes to Entitymanager dot.
Persist.
So now see if you are doing persist what would happen is it will first try to insert this entity into
the persistence context map cache.
You can say that.
So this is my entity.
This is the key.
So it is inserting into this.
After that it has committed it because he save.
Is transaction so committed happen okay.
So means insert query might have happened.
Now it is trying to do controller is trying to do the get query.
So now it is doing find by ID.
So here if you see will it go to DB first.
It will check the persistence context that hey is data is present into the entities by Casey.
This is a map.
The key is there.
And what is the keys trying to look?
Yes the same.
So it has the data and it will return it.
Now if you see the console insert query happened but there is no Select query because same persistence
manager is used because it is created at a one HTTP request.
Now see application is still running.
Data might be present into the DB yet.
Like if we connect the DB application is running, data is there.
Now if I am running another read hyphen JPA.
So in read hyphen JPA what is happening?
Two times two times find by id is happening Now, I told you whenever a new request.
So I'm going to hit this.
So new HTTP request new entity manager.
New entity manager doesn't know about the previous entity manager persistence context.
It will create its own.
So for the first time it will has to go to the DB, fetch this data from the DB.
But and then it will put into its persistence context.
And the second time the Select query it would be a cache it.
So only one time select query we should be able to see.
So let's hit it.
So I am calling find by id okay.
So first I am hitting get entity.
Will it be able to get the entity here.
If you see null no it will goes to the DB found.
Find the data insert it.
It will adding it.
Now second time it is hitting, will it be able to find it.
Yes it able to find holder.
Is there Second time there is no hit.
Now if you see the console, only one select query.
Sometimes we get difficulty in understanding this.
I have shown you by running this itself.
So we can also run this uh, by using our own creating own entity manager.
So you can also try using this.
So in the service class I am creating a entity manager factory.
Auto audit object is created.
At the time of application itself I am just auto wiring it.
Same object would be used.
So now I am creating first session.
In hibernate terms I will say that session is created means I am creating entity manager object through
factory.
After that started the transaction I am doing persist and two times fetch so means three db queries.
Okay and then I'm printing it and then I am committing the transaction.
Here I am doing flushing here and then closing the entity.
So this session is closed here.
So now if you see that what's happening is when you are running this code, first session is created,
means entity manager knows about the DB.
Like from this entity manager factory.
It knows how to interact with the DB.
So it will entity manager would be created persist user.
So this user would be inserted first.
So what if it is a fresh user.
So first insert.
So first persistence context would be created.
Insert this user.
Let's say hashtag one key would be created and the value.
So one.
And then it make an insert query okay insert query would be made during this commit flush okay.
Now after that a find come.
So it is using the same entity manager.
Right now it is easy to visualize same entitymanager it's using.
So when it do find means same persistence context.
Currently data is not there into the DB because we have not done the flush.
Okay, so it's there only in the persistence context.
Now I am doing fine.
So find will it be able to find.
Yes.
So no DB query is required.
Again I am doing will it record again DB query.
No.
Same Entitymanager same persistence context able to find it.
So no.
After that I am printing it and doing committing.
Now during this commit it do the flush.
So means now insert query will go and this user is also go here.
Entry goes here into the DB.
Now the second time I am doing another Entitymanager second Entitymanager is created.
Second Entitymanager means new persistence context.
I am creating a transaction committing it here.
So now I am first trying to find find the one does.
This entity manager knows about this persistence context.
Let's say that even though I am not closing this entity manager, it's open, let's say.
But will this know about this persistence context?
No, this is separate entity manager.
It knows about its persistence context only.
So it will try to hit a query okay.
It don't know about it.
So when it do find it find it.
No.
Then it goes to the DB.
DB already has the data user one.
So it will bring it and add it here okay so one time select query happen at this time.
After that it will do again.
Fine.
Second time find comes now it will goes to persistence context.
Now it find.
Yes.
Now does it need to go to the DB.
No it is already found the data.
So it return it data is found.
Then I do commit.
So there is nothing to flush.
It's only get query and then it will close it.
So one insert one select query happens.
So now here if you see application startup so one insert at this time and one select query at this time.
So I hope you able to clarify how it is working.
Okay.
And I already told you very important.
It is very easy to remember Entitymanager is created at an HTTP request because even though we are calling
a repository JPA repository like save query internally, it only goes ahead and find out the Entitymanager
we always find confusion.
Hey, does it pick one entity manager, different entity manager?
Will it be able to cache it or not?
Always easy to remember that dispatcher servlet is the one which create a entitymanager at the time
of every HTTP request.
So this is known as first level caching.
Okay.
Where.
Two entity manager one entity manager have their own persistence context and they both are independent
to each other and isolated.
Okay.
Any call from individual entity manager persistence context help in doing the managing the caching from
this.
There is no knowledge of inter persistence context.
That's where second level caching comes into the picture.
We will see it later.
Okay guys, thank you.
If any question we can discuss in the comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: JPA | Second Level Caching ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in Spring Boot I will be covering the second level caching.
Very very important very frequently used in the Big Macs.
Also it's not just like it's a concept, it's used actually in production level codes also.
So before I start, this is the prerequisite.
Like if you know the architecture of JPA and the first level of cache, but those who haven't seen the
first level of cache, I will just give in a couple of minutes, give the quick overview of the first
level caching.
So in the first level caching, you already know that these are the basic setup.
Like we have created one controller where we have post mapping, get mapping.
We have a service class which talks to the repository.
In repository we have extend the JPA repository you already know in depth like uh why uh what's the
API, what are the method IT support.
And here, if you see that this is one entity which we have created.
Okay.
Now in if you can recall from the first level of caching, whenever you make a new request, a new entity
manager object get created.
And for each entity manager object or one persistence context which is helpful in the first level of
caching is happened.
So that's what I am doing here when I'm making a first HTTP request insert call.
Okay, so we see a Insert query executed properly.
Now when I make a second call get call.
What happened here.
If you see another Select query happened okay.
Now here if you see I make another get call.
Another get call means another new request.
New request means new entity manager object.
Okay.
So here in this case you see another Select query.
So there is no first level caching is applied here means there is no cache hit happening.
Why?
Because whenever any new call happens, a new entity manager object is created.
And for each entity manager object we have a different persistence context.
Okay, so that's why you are not able to see any cache hit between here, even though it's the same
two times I am doing a get call.
Okay, so every time I make a new request, new object is created and it has its own persistent context.
It is not aware of this one where this object is present okay.
So it's not aware of this.
It is only aware of its persistent context since it is not there.
It hit the DB.
It make a new Select query.
Okay.
But if if you are using the same get call and same Entitymanager if you are doing first get and then
second time get, then the first time get it make a DB, call it.
Put the object here the second time this object same persistence object is used, so it would be cache
hit same entity.
Manager object means same persistence context object would be used and the second time since the object
is present cache, it would happen okay.
And with every HTTP request new entity manager object was created.
And that was the reason why we are seeing this behavior okay.
So this is all about the first level caching.
I have explained it in depth.
If you find this little bit in hurry first level caching because we have already covered in depth in
the previous video.
Now since we have recalled a bit, now let's move to the second level caching, which is L2 caching.
Also, many times in industry you will hear engineers are saying, hey, what about L2 caching?
What data is there in L2 caching?
Second level caching is known as L2 caching.
And what generally happen in this is here.
So till between this persistence context and db.
Now there is one more layer comes which is your second level caching.
So whenever any call comes okay Entitymanager object is created.
It has its own persistence context.
Now before it looks for db it again another layer.
So you consider this L1 and this as L2.
So now it checks second level caching.
Hey that data is present here or not, data is present here or not.
So even though you are hitting multiple requests, different requests, different objects, different
persistence contexts, but they are sharing a same second level caching now.
So even for this, there is a chance that we are increasing the chance that the cache will increase
because this is also in memory.
So this is also fast, but only difference is it is shared among different persistence contexts.
Okay.
And then ultimately goes to the DB.
And whatever the data comes from DB it first go you can say that goes to L2 cache and then L1 cache
and then out.
Okay.
So let's see one happy flow and see what all it takes to enable the second level caching.
If I want to enable it how we can do it.
So first thing we have to add the dependencies.
So we have to add these three dependencies okay.
Edge cache.
Hibernate J and J cache API.
Okay, you can check out the latest version which is applicable for Spring Boot three dot x version,
which we are using.
So you can check out the latest version of this, which is uh, applicable for this spring boot version.
And we can use it.
But this three dependency, we need it.
Why we need that.
I will tell you, but I am just telling you very quick overview.
We will go one by one each and will tell you.
But first thing is we required Pom in application dot properties, we have to enable certain configurations
like second level caching.
True like we are enable the cache uh second level caching.
But don't worry about this.
So this is the second changes we need.
First you have added dependency.
Second in application dot properties we have enabled some configuration here in the service layer.
No change.
Right.
It is the basic.
Like your repository.
You are just calling the repository.
Nothing.
No change.
Then you have repository.
No change.
Okay, then after that you have your entity.
So in the entity you will see this part.
At the rate cache.
Okay.
So we are it.
We are just telling the hibernate that do a second level caching for this entity okay.
Whenever this request comes for this entity or whenever anybody is working on this entity, before touching
to DB, first check in l2, l2 cache.
Okay, we will see that.
What does it mean region and all.
And here if you see again don't worry about this.
What's the purpose of each one.
We one.
We will go one by one each.
But here if you see palm application dot properties and this three no change.
Fourth, no change.
How we were using only fifth is like you have to put at the rate cash, which is like we are telling
hibernate that we have to put a second level cash or this entity user details.
That's all.
Now here, if you see first step I am doing an insert data is directly inserted into DB.
No cash insertion or validation happens.
So I am calling a post operation and data is inserted.
So first happen.
Second do I am making a one get call?
Okay, whatever the data is inserted, I am doing a get call.
Since this is the first get call cache, miss will happen and DB call will be made.
So what would be the sequences?
Get entity manager.
It will check its persistence context.
It will check second level caching and then check DB.
So data is present in two persistence contact.
No data is present in L2 caching.
No because during insert.
Also no data is inserted into L2.
So it will hit a db and then it will put into L2, put into L1 and then ultimately goes out.
Okay.
So this is the second call where if you see that cache miss happened and it make a DB call, and then
it will also caching data from load.
So it will also load the data.
Now the third time I am making a get call.
Now this time data is present into L2.
It don't have to goes into db itself okay.
Okay so this is a new get call means new get call means new entity manager object.
And since it's a new entity manager object.
New persistence context.
So data was present into this one.
But this is a new request.
So new persistence context.
So there is no hit from the first L1.
But L2 is same for multiple persistence context.
Now it will check L2 data is present into L2 right from the previous call.
So it would be cached and no db hit required.
So here if you see cache hit happened during the second.
Okay.
So this is very one functional flow for the second level caching.
Now let's see why and what all things are required.
What is the purpose for that.
So in Pom.xml I told you that we need three dependencies okay.
So here if you see first one is all dot cache and the version provide the core implementation of second
level caching.
So here if you see right there are multiple cache e cache caffeine cache hazelcast okay.
So which provider you want to use for the second level caching.
Okay.
We want to use one.
I am going with the cache.
You can also go with the caffeine cache.
Doesn't matter.
Okay.
Because we don't have to go inside the working of this.
Why?
I'll tell you now because of this second.
So this was first and now this is let's say second.
What is this cache hyphen API.
So this is like a interface okay.
It expose all the API, let's say get cache.
I'm just saying that create cache okay.
And they provide the implementation for it.
So we are only interested in invoking the API.
Okay.
And this APIs are the interfaces which are implemented by this second level cache providers.
Okay.
So that's why we have to bring this dependency also, which says that this is the interface which your
hibernate code can interact with so that in future if you change from cache to caffeine, your code
will not impact at all because you are dealing with the interface.
Who is the provider?
It can change.
Okay.
So this is to bring this API interfaces.
This dependency is required.
Now this is the third which is required.
So this is our hibernate code.
Now this hibernate has to talk to this API.
And there are many annotations like at the rate cache like there are like at the rate uh like Concurrency
strategy.
Cache concurrency strategy.
There are so many specific annotation and variable fields we are going to use for caching.
So those are understand by hibernate J cache.
So you can consider it as a bridge bridge between hibernate and the J interface APIs.
Right.
So it provide a bridge that okay whatever the annotation you are adding specifically for caching this
understands it and I hibernate knows how to talk with hibernate J okay.
So that's why the name hibernate Hyphen j cache, so considered as a bridge between Hibernate and Hibernate,
can't directly knows that when to create or create cache.
When to call get cache when to call put cache.
No, but this knows.
So you can consider this consider as an orchestrator, like based on the value which you are using during
caching.
Let's say I am using read write.
I am using read only what method to call what validations to add.
It can have it.
Okay, so considered as a bridge between hibernate and cache which understand how to talk with the cache
APIs.
Okay, so these three are required.
So no matter what you need cache API you need hibernate.
But here you can instead you can use cache or you can use caffeine or Hazelcast whichever you want based
upon your need you can change it.
So first thing is clear, right?
Why this three dependency in Pom.xml required?
Now let's understand the application dot properties.
So this is the first configuration we have to enable.
By default second level cache is false Okay.
So we have to enable it to true.
Okay.
Once we enable it then only second level cache is start functioning.
Then only like it will all these things comes into the picture.
Otherwise no.
The second is your region region factory class.
But before understanding the region factory class, we need to first understand what is region.
Okay.
So let me tell you.
In short, like what is region?
Then I'll tell you why we need to set the factory class.
So region helps in logical grouping of cached data.
Logical grouping.
For each region we can apply different caching strategy like what is the eviction policy like Fifo,
Fifo, LRU, whatever.
Okay, uh, last in, first out, first in, first out, least recently used.
So whatever eviction policy you want to use, You can apply to different region wise time to live for
the cache data.
What is the cache size like?
How many entries you can store in a cache like 1100 200?
And what is the concurrency strategy?
Okay, so here if you see an example this is one entity user details.
And this is I am creating another entity order detail.
Okay.
Now here if you see I am enabling at the rate cache annotation.
So now you know that at the cache this is some cache specific annotation which is aware of aware by
hibernate J cache.
It knows what to do.
And we have also enabled second level caching.
So it comes into the picture.
Now here if you see that what region we have given is user detail cache.
So consider that one region is user detail cache.
And for order what region I have given is order detail cache.
All detail cache.
Okay so here it stores this entity.
User details.
User details entity.
It takes care of order details.
Entity.
Multiple entities.
It can group like which I want to group inside this region.
And multiple entities which are group want to group inside this region.
We can give any name of the region.
Now here if you see either in application dot properties or generally I feel comfortable with each dot
XML like specific file which we can put in source main resources and provide this configuration.
Okay, for this catch alias user detail cache means this this region okay.
This region.
What is the in memory.
How many how many entries you want to put?
What is the TTL for the data which is stored?
What is the eviction strategy you want to use.
So no matter how many entities you are grouping together, all this strategy like eviction, TTL and
your memory would be applicable for this, but may be possible that for the order one you want different,
you don't want the same.
So here I have TTL for 60s.
Here you want TTL for 500 seconds.
Let's say okay.
So that's why it's a logical grouping for each region.
You can provide this one.
So for order you can give time to live is 200 seconds.
I want 1000 entries for this one.
And the strategy is Fifo.
So region provide you more granular way you can manage your cache okay.
And the second property says that region factory class.
Who is going to manage that J region factory.
So now here, if you see that this hibernate cache also has factory class.
Okay.
And also this cache also has factory class.
If you want to directly work with this like hey you take care of managing all the cache directly, then
you can directly use cache.
But I would always say that it's better that if you use hibernate J cache, because in future if you
change from cache to caffeine, you don't have to change lot of codes because this all work with interfaces
beneath the provider can change over the time.
Okay, so here I have used J cache region factory, this one which is present by hibernate JK.
So this manage everything like Insertion like get cash, create cash.
It manages the region proper region.
So for this region, what is the TTL?
What is the cache eviction policy.
So it will take care of it.
But if you want to use directly you can use directly also.
But that again it comes with like benefit is there.
You don't have like abstraction you are directly working.
But you know the disadvantage.
Also like if future you have to change you might have to change the code also a lot.
Okay.
So.
You can define the factory class which will take care of your management of the cache data.
Okay.
The third one is the provider like caching provider.
So even though we have added the dependency but this like you have added the cache, we need to tell
the spring boot that which provider I am using just by adding the dependency in Pom uh, in this case
hibernate.
JC Zcash doesn't know which provider it has to use.
So we have to set this configuration that, hey, I want to use Zcash caching provider so that whenever
it calls get cache, it creates an object for this one.
And it invokes Zcash.
So similarly you can uh add differently if you are working with different cache provider okay.
So these three are important.
This is just for debug.
So that whenever we hit a query uh we will something to print out if insert query select query so that
we can see.
But this three only is application dot property is important.
Okay.
Now let's say different cache concurrency strategy.
Now here if you see if you have focus on the entity object we have put at the rate cache.
At the rate cache is like uh hibernate hyphen.
Uh J cache knows that this is used for second level caching and we have to cache this entity.
Okay, in the L2 cache.
But there is something called usage equals to catch concurrency strategy.
There are four types of concurrency strategy.
Read only read write non strict read write transactional.
So which one you want to use depends upon business to business.
So I'll tell you what is this catch concurrency strategy is.
Read only.
Let's go with the first read only.
But in short, if I give you a definition of catch concurrency strategy, I would say that, uh, this
will guide how your operation insert, update, delete or impact your cache data.
Okay.
So, so that they can work in parallel without, uh, you can say that it's possible that in some business
use cases, stale data is possible.
So you select a proper strategy.
In some business scenario, stale data is not even applicable.
It should not have happened.
Then we have to pick up appropriate strategy.
So concurrency strategy is like how you maintain handle the concurrent request like get update delete
is coming.
Then you have the data in the cache in the DB how you want to handle it.
So let's go ahead with the first one.
Read only.
Good for static data.
Data which do not require any updates.
Any updates?
Not even I'm saying less update any update if you try to update an entity, exception will come.
So see this like here in the request controller I have put another put mapping just to make sure that
I will also update some data.
This is service where I am updating with the existing ID.
I am first fetching the data and then I'm saving it so it will try to update it.
Repository.
And here ultimately entity and the entity I am using read only.
Now first let's say I have done insert okay insert directly put a data into db user detail.
Let's say then I am doing get.
When you are do a get first cache miss will happen, then it will hit DB and then it will put the data
into L2 cache also.
So user detail let's say one here.
User detail one here.
This is your L2 cache and this is your DB.
Now I am trying to do a put call.
I am trying to do a put call.
But here I have put read only this entity user detail entity is read only.
So now when I call a put request what I got internal error.
What says that you can't update read only object.
Okay.
So here if you see who has this logic hibernate.
Uh, this 16.5.2 like hibernate just knows that.
Understand this cache concurrency strategies.
This one.
Okay.
Then we have a read.
Write.
Now there are use cases where you have a scenario where multiple reads update delete can happen in parallel
and you want to manage those.
So this might be applicable.
And also it's scenario like where you don't want stale data to be written also.
So this is better.
In that case.
Let's say during read it put a shared lock.
So other read can also acquire shared lock but no write operation.
So now let's say that you have L2 cache.
You have DB, you have user detail one here.
User detail one here.
Now get call one is happening.
Get call two is happening.
It put a lock internally on the cache but it is not blocking other get calls also.
So read call can happen multiple read call.
So they can do a cache.
At multiple cache.
It can happen.
Nobody is stopping anybody.
But it will not allow any write operation.
But any write operation comes.
Let's say put it will stop it okay.
Because till the lock is present, read call and during update It put kind of a exclusive lock where
read and write operation are not allowed.
So here, if you see that whenever any update happen, what happen is understand this scenario.
What happen is how it handles this.
This one is simple.
Whenever you do a insert directly goes to the DB cache.
Not even comes into the picture.
L2 cache only comes into the picture once we do a first get call.
Okay, then you do a get call.
L2 cache comes into the picture cache miss happen goes to the db, then it load into the L2 cache and
then kind of uh return it.
If there is a cache it happen directly return from here.
No need to go to the DB.
Now let's say update is happening.
What it does.
So now let's say you have a data into L2 cache.
You have a data into DB one put call.
Update call is happening.
You have entity one here.
Entity one here.
How it will make sure that how it will update it, how it will make sure that any get call is happening
in parallel.
It do not read the stale data.
So as you know that any update let's say transaction begins first it will do is acquire lock on cache
it prevent stale data, read from cache.
No read and write allowed after that.
So once it has taken the lock, acquired a lock on this entity, what it will do, it will make it invalidate.
So there is a flag here inside this cache data.
It make it invalidate okay.
After that it will update its DB whatever the update required.
Let's say e1 is changed to E1 hash something.
If it commit properly okay, then it will update the cache data with the latest data and remove the
invalidated flag.
So now while returning, it will update the cache here in the L2.
Also L1 hash and remove the invalidated flag.
Now this is also valid.
And then it will release the lock on the cache.
Now it will release the lock on the cache.
But if there is any rollback happen if there is any rollback happen what it will do is it will just
release the lock on cache.
It won't remove the invalidated flag.
Okay.
So now let's say that L2 cache it was entity one DB entity one during put call it would make it invalidate.
And while processing some issue happens and it rollback transaction got rollback.
So it it just remove the lock.
So it put a lock right.
It acquired the lock.
It will just release the lock on the cache but it will not remove this invalidated flag and no updation
will happen.
So now, in future, any get call will come as since the lock is released, any get call will come.
It will see that hey, it is marked as invalidated.
It will read from the DB and then it will ultimately update the cache again.
Okay, so this is how internally update logic is written.
So this is very important.
Like uh sometimes during rollback.
See most of always one thing is the cache is sometimes it's a best effort call best effort.
Some sometimes you are able trying to write it but fails.
You are trying to update it but fails.
So we should not fail the transaction itself when transactions are very expensive, right?
We should not fail the transaction itself that okay, my DB is also updated.
Everything is done properly but I'm not able to update the cache.
So let me fail the transaction.
No.
So that's why sometimes cache are best effort.
So now here generally when you invalidate the cache and let's say even if the commit happened properly,
now you are updating the cache.
If some failure happened during update okay.
And it will release the lock.
Then also it's not an issue because you have already marked as invalidate.
If it is not update properly happen any future call happen get call it see the invalidate it will do
a fresh read from DB and later on overwrite the cache data properly.
So that's why read write is more.
You can say that generally in kind of a payment industry this is more frequently used.
So this is one example you can see that I am doing first post insert Insert happen directly inserted
into DB.
Then I made a Get call.
You know that during a get call cache miss will happen.
It will make a DB call and then it will insert into the cache.
Load data into the cache.
Now you are making a put call.
When you are making a put call, what you do is you will put a lock first, you will put a invalidate,
then you will hit the DB and after that you will release the lock releasing lock and all are not printing,
but after that you know that it will update the cache also with the latest data and release the lock.
And now when you are doing last get call cache has the updated data right.
So cache hit will happen because updation happened properly and then release lock happened.
Okay then the second catch concurrency is non strict retry.
This is you can say that little bit lenient than read write during read.
No lock is acquired at all right.
During read it.
Do not even check whether there is a lock or not it directly.
Go ahead and retry to read it.
During update after transaction commits successfully, cache is marked invalidated and no update will
with the fresh data.
So consider this one.
In this scenario it is little bit.
So the.
Here the purpose of non strict is that uh try to put a lock for the less time okay.
So that's where like for read it.
Remove the lock at all for update.
During update.
What happen is transaction begin.
Then it will not uh acquire or it will.
Acquire.
Lock on cache It will not do any update or you can invalidate the cache.
No, cache is not invalidated.
Okay.
And then you can say that it goes ahead and update DB okay.
And after that if transaction commit success then it will invalidate the cache, invalidate the cache
and then release the lock.
Okay.
So now here if you see that if any transaction rollback happen, if rollback happen it won't do anything.
It won't even invalidate thing.
It will just release it simply right.
Because uh, data is not even like it is not even updating the cache itself.
So that is not even there.
So that's not good for heavy read application.
So if update and read happens in parallel, it's a chance that read operation might get stale data because
read is not acquiring log lock at all.
And while update is happening, if read also comes in parallel, maybe during update it might it might
have updated the DB.
Okay, but since read is not uh, wait for any log and everything and if it read the data from the cache,
okay, before this invalidated, it will get the stale data.
But it's a very small window.
But there is a chance here in the at the rate cache I have put non restrict read write.
Okay.
And also let me put one debugger point in J.
We know that the factory which we are using is J cache region factory which is present into hibernate.
Hibernate.
Hyphen.
Cache.
So while during application startup it will create a cache and then ultimately it will goes to we have
the only one provider.
So this it will goes to this provider right cache.
And then we'll see that like I'm starting the server.
So during application startup server J cache region factory got invoked.
Right.
So now it takes care of creating the cache and everything.
This factory okay.
It will take care of like creating a cache object okay.
And invoking a proper API of the uh, you can say that the J cache API interface, which eventually
implemented by the your cache provider.
So in that case, uh, here, if you see that this is the interface which is coming from cash cash hyphen
API.
Right.
This is the interface and Cash Manager is providing the implementation.
Okay.
So once our server is started now let's perform it.
First let's do post call.
So post.
So post call is success.
Now let's see the DB.
What's the data stored in the DB.
We have a data okay.
Now.
And here also we will check it like insert call is made.
So now we are trying to make a get call in the get call get call is success.
We got the data here.
If you see it make a Select query.
So first one is insert.
Second one is select.
And now in the non strict read write.
What we are saying is when you do a put call.
Now I am changing.
From now I am changing the data from SJ to let's say SJ updated.
If I run this data is changed in the DB.
Let's say that it's change SJ updated.
But what would have happened internally inside the cache?
So since transaction is committed properly, it has updated properly.
It has also updated the cache invalidated in cache.
It is not has the latest data.
It didn't update SJ updated only it marked as invalidated.
Okay, now if I do a Get call I am able to get updated properly.
Is it coming from cache or new Select query would be made here.
If you see that a new Select query is made after update, because update only marked invalidate, it
will not update the cache itself.
But if we change this to read write.
Read write.
So if you change it to read write, we can see that uh, the we can, uh, double test the same behavior.
I am running the insert.
During insert we will see insert call.
Then during get call we will see a cache miss and then a select query.
Now it has inserted into the cache.
Then during put call it has first marked as invalidated.
Then update the DV after the success transaction success.
It also have updated the cache also.
So update happened after that.
If I do a get call, will I getting a updated data?
Yes.
So is it from DB or cache?
There would not be any select query cache.
Hit okay.
So in the read write.
It also update the cache.
But in the non restrict it.
Don't update the cache, it just make it invalidated.
And the last one is transactional in the transaction is you can say that it's a more restrict.
So it acquire read lock and also write log update the cache to after transaction commit successfully
similar to read underscore write like once the transaction commit successfully it update the cache properly.
Any other read operation during cache log goes directly to DB.
What does it mean?
I have an L2 cache.
You have a DB if you have put in a transactional or cache concurrency.
Now get call is there.
Let's say it has entity one, entity one.
So it put a lock even though it put a lock.
And now if any get call come it will say that hey it is locked.
So get will try to fetch from the DB okay.
And return.
So in this during read also it act like it act like a hard lock where no other get call is also even
allowed to read from the L2 cache.
Go and directly read from the DB.
If any other write operation comes, it has to wait in queue.
Okay till the cache till the get lock is not released.
Okay, you can test it.
Like, uh, the way we have tested this read write and uh, non strict you can test with this also.
So debug is a very helpful tool to build this understanding.
So you can debug this one.

--- Spring boot: JPA | Map DTO to Table ---

Hey guys, on this side, welcome to concept and coding.
Uh, in JPA till now we have seen about what is JDBC and in JPA architecture and first level caching,
second level caching.
Right.
And many more things.
So today let's go further and see more annotations and how the mapping of the entity and tables happens.
So this is the first thing we have to configure in our application dot properties spring dot JPA dot
hibernate dot DDL hyphen auto.
What does it do.
It's a configuration which tell hibernate regarding how to create and manage the DB schema.
So we have to add it into application dot properties file.
Okay.
So here here if you see in the application dot properties we have to add this value.
So in the application dot properties, we have to add this value so we can provide certain values like
none.
Update.
Validate.
Create.
Draw.
Okay.
Depending upon our use case we can define any one of them.
So the first one is the none.
It do not create schema.
Do not update schema.
Do not delete schema.
Actually it does nothing and it is good for production.
So for production I would always recommend use this only.
Nothing else.
Because in production we do write DB script and then give to DBA.
DBA will run.
We have a plan for rollback.
Everything okay.
So always use none in the production while you are doing development update is a good choice like here.
Like it will create schema.
If it is not there it will update the schema.
Okay, if it is already there, let's say you are.
There are already four columns.
Now in your entity.
There are five columns, so one new column.
So it will update it.
It will add new but it will not delete anything.
Okay does update but without deleting any existing data or schema.
Good for development environment.
The third one is validate again it do not create.
Do not update.
Do not delete any data or schema.
It just validate or do a matching between the entities and the DB schema.
Right.
Whatever the entities which you have created in your classes and it will match that both are matching
or not.
If it find any discrepancy it will throw an exception.
Then fourth one is create.
It will create a schema update schema and yes, it deletes schema also.
So drop and recreate the schema during application startup.
So whenever you start your application, right.
So first it will drop.
Drop all the data, all the schema and then creates a new schema fresh.
Similarly there is something called create hyphen drop.
It is very very similar to create.
But only thing is when you start an application it will create the schema.
But when you shut down the application it will drop the schema.
Okay.
So create what it does is during application startup itself it first drop and then recreate here.
What it will do is during startup it just do only create and during application shutdown it do only
drop.
Okay.
You can test all these things by keeping the value here.
Let's say for say I am using create hyphen drop okay.
So now when I start an application so what it does It just create trouble.
When I stop the application now, I am stopping it.
So during a stop, it drops it.
Okay.
Similarly, if I use create, you know what will happen during create only it will first drop and then
create okay.
So first it will drop table and then create okay.
So we can easily validate uh using this.
And we can choose depending upon our choice.
But I have already told you in production always go for none.
And development uh, update is sufficient.
Okay.
Before proceeding further, let me also tell you about difference between DB and schema.
I am not sure I am, uh, I am pretty much sure many of you are already aware of this.
It's a nothing related with Java.
It's a DB concept.
So there are two part write db and schema.
A db can have multiple schemas, right?
Schema one.
Schema two.
Schema three.
Schema four.
Right.
So you can in this schema you can have logical grouping of tables.
Table one.
Table two.
Table three.
Let's say table four.
Table five.
Table six belongs to schema two.
Similarly you can logical group the tables into different schemas.
So how these are helpful right.
Generally in organization where they have only one DB but there are multiple teams.
So they can create different schemas for each team.
And they can provide a proper ownership to the different team to each schema.
So they can utilize only one DB, but inside one db itself they can have multiple schema.
And each schema ownership belongs to one particular team.
You can say okay, so they can group their tables in a particular schema, and they own the ownership
for that one.
If you don't provide any schema, then you are ultimately adding your table directly here.
Okay, so that is also right.
But uh, if, if, if you can say that in your company, each team has their own DB, then this is okay,
right?
My team has my own DB so that is okay.
I don't have to create a schema, but there are a scenario like if one db is shared by multiple teams
then schemas comes into the picture.
Okay.
So that's your uh the term schema.
We are saying it right.
Okay.
Now let's start.
The first thing we have to start with at the rate table annotation.
So if you remember from our previous video, while creating an entity, I was using the entity annotation
because this will tell that JPA has to look for this class and treat this class as an entity means it
is equivalent to a table in a DB, okay.
And each instance of this entity considered as a row in that table.
But we were not using at the root table annotation till yet.
Why?
Because it's an optional field.
If you don't define it, hibernate will create the table name based on the entity name.
So my entity name is user detail.
So maybe hibernate internally will create user underscore details.
So generally S2 will create all capital letter and follow the camel case whenever there is a camel case
it put underscore.
But you can specifically mention yourself by at the root table itself.
Give the name.
So when you will check your DB you will see that this name, whatever you have defined here that will
come.
Okay.
So if you see inside this table annotation, this is the name which is used to provide what specific
name you wanted to give to your table.
Okay, then there is something called schema.
I already told you what schema is, right.
So if you want your table to be part of a particular schema then provided here.
Okay.
If you don't want to be part of any schema, don't add it.
Okay.
So now here, if you say that I want to part of any schema.
So I put schema and provided the name onboarding.
So there is one schema.
So remember that hibernate not automatically create this schema.
We have to create the schema.
So here in this case how we can create the schema is see this one.
So in application dot properties there is something called spring dot data source dot URL where we have
provided.
What is the DB.
Okay there we have to provide like this.
Init equals to.
Now we have to create a schema.
Create a schema.
If not exist, whatever the name of the schema you want to give.
If you want to create more schema, you can another add like create schema.
You can add as many schemas you like this wanted.
Okay so we can create a schema first.
Schemas are not.
If you just write schema here but not right here.
Hibernate not will not automatically create schema.
It will say that schema not found.
So we first have to create schema like this okay.
Then we can tell that okay this table should belongs to this schema.
If you don't want to be part of this or any schema don't write it okay.
So now what would happen is if you see there is one schema already created okay.
And now this user details and goes here.
User detail goes here.
So there I also have one more entity which is like order details, right?
And I didn't use any schema so it directly goes under the DB.
It is not under part of any schema.
Okay.
So and I already told you what schema is.
It's nothing but a logical grouping of tables.
Okay.
You can provide some permission that only these these these teams or engineers will have permission
for this schema.
Nobody can access it apart from those rules okay.
So that's why if you want you can use schema provide like this only in the condition that you have defined
the schema or created the schema before itself.
So then you have third one here in this table attribute is unique constraints.
So like this you can add in a table.
We have multiple columns which you want it to be unique.
Okay.
Column one.
Column two.
Column three.
Let's say you want certain columns to be unique.
Then you can define like this.
So unique constraints equals to.
Right.
And it accepts the annotation unique constraint annotation column name whatever the column name which
you have provided.
So single column unique constraint.
So I might have a column name phone.
Now I made it unique constraint.
So all the values inside it would be unique.
Similarly you can also club together two columns together composite unique constraint.
So they both together should be unique.
Name and email together should be unique.
Okay.
So you can give like this column names equals to this one at the unique constraint.
Okay.
So this is a table level.
So in in a particular table whatever the columns you have you can provide this uniqueness constraint
like this.
Okay.
So now here if you see that this is my fields columns and I have put a constraint.
Unique constraint on phone and name and email.
So if you check the schema here I will see that uh.
Here I can see that phone number is constraint added UK is uh unique key right.
Unique constraint.
Similarly this both email and name they both are same key right.
Because I have used it together.
So together they form a unique constraint.
Okay.
So like this you can add more values.
So table has one more attribute which we can use is indexes.
So here if you go here.
So we can add indexes like this.
You can use indexes equals to and any number of index you want to create on a columns of a table.
So now let's say that I want to create.
So these are my column I want to create an index on phone.
Okay.
So I have put the name name of an index in the column list which is a string I give like phone.
This is the column name.
So on phone this index is created okay.
On phone.
Similarly I created another index okay I gave this name.
And on the composite column on this two columns, I have added it.
So here column list.
If you go inside this index annotation right column list is then a string.
So it accept like this okay so name comma comma separated.
So comma separated column we can provide so name comma email so index on composite columns okay.
So here if you see that the same name which is on name and email okay.
So now it's been indexed.
Now we have to see at the rate column annotation.
Very simple.
Again it's an optional field.
If not defined JPA will add it with default values okay.
So now let's say that I have created uh entity and I provided the table name user underscore details
okay.
And uh, now these are all the fields, even though here and here I haven't provided the rate column.
And for this I am providing at the rate column.
JPA also add annotation for this for this but with default values.
But here I am not using default values, I am setting mine so at the rate column name even though its
name.
But in the db I want name full underscore name.
Okay, so if you see that in DB what name comes full underscore name, not just name okay.
So that is one thing.
Another thing is if there is only one column you want to make it unique, you can also do it here.
Unique equals to true.
Similarly as we saw above right we have unique constraint.
So there also you can use it on a single column.
Or if you don't want to use at a table level you can also use at a column level.
So you can use like unique equals to true if you want to make it nullable true or false.
That value can be null or not.
You can provide like it can be empty or not.
So by this attribute you can set it and even the length of the field you can determine if you don't
provide this value.
JPA internally set the default values like email.
It will be considered as capital or hibernate.
Generally for S2, everything are turned out to be a capital letter, right?
And phone it changed to phone but with default values.
Unique might be false, nullable might be false, length might be let's say 50 okay.
So some default values it will set.
Okay.
Now these are the two another important annotation.
We have to be aware at the rate id annotation and at the rate generated value annotation.
So now what at the rate id is used for It is used to mark the field as a primary key.
Okay, every table should have one unique value, which is used to uniquely identify each record that
is known as primary key.
And in an entity and in an entity right.
The class we can use at the rate ID annotation to mark the field as primary key.
So each entity can have only one primary key.
So each entity at the rate entity cannot can have only one primary key, and only one field can be annotated
with at the rate id I can't do like hey, this is also at the rate ID email is also at the rate id no,
only one field.
We can mark it at the rate ID.
But now your question might come.
Hey what about the composite primary key in composite key There can be more than one column.
Then how to do that?
Because we have put a constraint that at the rate ID can only be used on one field.
But what about the composite primary key how it can be handled.
So there are two ways to handle composite primary key.
One is using at the rate embeddable and at the rate embedded ID.
Another is with at the rate ID class and at the rate id annotation.
Okay, so we'll see this.
But there are certain rules which we have to follow.
So it must be a public class.
So we create a new class where we provide all the fields which are composite primary key.
That class should be a public class.
I will provide you a reason Also, it must implement the serializable interface.
Write that public class need to implement the serializable interface.
It should have one no argument constructor and must override the equals and hashCode method.
Okay, so there is a proper reasoning why this rule need to be followed.
And we'll see that.
First let's see with this at the rate ID class and at the rate id annotation how composite primary key
can be defined.
Primary key.
It's already clear right.
We have already seen example.
Here I am using primary key at the rate id okay.
So ID is my primary key PK.
But for composite key see how to do it.
So first approach let's say that using at the rate ID class and at the rate id annotation.
Now let's say that this is my table okay I have created an entity.
This is the table name which I have given.
These are the field, and I want these two columns to mark as a composite key name and address.
Together they uniquely identify a row.
Okay, so now here in this how we can do is I can't put at the rate ID here at the rate ID here.
Note it won't work.
So we first approach we are using it at the rate ID class.
So see this one.
So I have created one class public class.
The first rule I have created a public class let's say user details seek composite key.
And I have implement the serializable second rule.
Okay.
We defined all the fields which I wanted to considered as a composite key.
So I want name and address right.
So I put name and address here.
The third rule it should have one won no argument.
Constructor even if you don't write it.
Generally a default constructor is always added if you don't have any argument constructor, but for
uh, rules to follow.
Just to say I mentioned here that this is the third rule which says that there should be one no argument
constructor should be present.
And the fourth rule says that we should override the equal and the hashCode method.
So I have override it.
So I have name and address.
Right.
So equals I have said that if object whatever the this object and the object which is coming, if both
are equal directly return true.
No problem.
The other use case is that if the object which is coming and this objects are different than return
false.
If the instance instance is same, it is still a user details, then I can compare this individual value.
Also, if value is also matching name and address is also matching, then I would say that yes, they
are equal.
Okay.
Either.
So in short, either both the objects, this object, the one in the parameter and the one this object,
if both are same, then return true.
If both objects are different but of same type, then we individually compare all the values like name,
address.
If they both are equal, then we say that yes, the both objects are equal and similarly hashcode.
I am using objects dot hash and passing this list of values, and internally it will create some hashcode
and return.
Okay, so this is the fourth line.
You have to provide your own functionality for the equals and hashCode.
I will tell you also why now once this class is created, what we have to do is in your entity class
where you have defined your table.
There we have to use this at the rate id class annotation and this is the class user details k dot class.
Okay, like this.
We have to provide this annotation and whatever the fields for which you have determined a composite
key, you have put at the rate ID over here.
So remember that this ID is not equivalent to that primary key.
No.
Now you have annotated your class with at the rate ID class right now, whatever the at the rate ID
you will put on the field, those together would be considered as composite key.
And those should be present into this class here.
Okay.
Now here, if you see the schema, uh, you will see that index name it created on address.
And name this address and name it created a composite key together.
Okay.
so this is one way.
But now your question can come in, say why it has to implement serializable.
Why we have to implement equivalent hash code.
So this is my understanding why we need to override equivalent hash code.
So you from the previous video, you know that JPA internally maintain first level caching.
And also we can implement second level caching.
And in both it uses HashMap.
And generally we have key and value right in HashMap.
The key is generally the primary key.
So now here in this case the key is our composite key right.
And it's a separate class more than one field.
So how the equal and the hash code should work that you will guide right for your scenario okay.
Only if name is equal I can consider that yes two objects are equal.
But in some scenario, no, all the field exactly should match, then I would say it is equal.
It determines, like your business, uh, functionality.
Okay.
So that is one of the reason because internally we use uh HashMap for lot of features JPA like for first
level caching.
So it relies on this key which is nothing but a primary key.
So for that HashMap it required equals and hashCode.
Okay.
Another you can say that then why we need to implement serializable.
And why we when when we were using primary key like at the rate only entity.
And let's say at the rate ID primary key let's say long ID we were not implementing this class.
Uh, implement serializable right.
Why then for composite key I need to, uh, implement serializable.
That question can also come.
So the my understanding is unlike single primary key like a string, long composite key, or custom
classes.
Okay, you are not just putting at the rate ID over here now, like one field string or long or something.
In the composite key, we are creating a separate class okay.
That considered as a composite key.
Now we need to make sure that this class should be like in a serializable format.
Like in future if required, I should be able to serialize this class.
Okay, so JPA need to make sure that those classes should be properly serializable.
And if you implement that class class serializable, that will make sure that yes, in future let's
say that, uh, during distributed caching and over the network, we have to pass this object.
JPA should be able to serialize this class properly.
Class.
So this is the second approach using embeddable and embedded ID annotation the composite key.
So again I am creating a new class.
Public class first rule.
Second rule implement the serializable third rule.
Have one no arg constructor.
Fourth rule uh I have equals and hashCode defined.
Same everything.
Same.
But only thing is I have put at the rate embeddable here one annotation here and in the entity.
Now I don't need at the rate ID class something right.
No.
Now in the entity I can use at the rate embedded ID and provide the class this this class.
Okay.
So I can provide the reference of this class.
Now this will make sure that this would be added as a primary key composite key.
So now when the table get created for this entity right here address name phone all comes properly.
Address, name, phone all comes properly and even the address and name, address and name are indexed
both together.
Okay, so this is the second approach using at the rate embeddable and at the rate embedded ID for the
composite key how we can create it.
And we have one more like a very important part is at the rate generated value annotation.
So now we know how to define primary key.
At the rate id annotation.
But we can also define its generation strategy too.
By default primary key columns are not auto fill.
Remember that.
So let's say that I have put at the rate ID long ID.
Now whenever you are trying to do insert, you have to provide like what ID?
Because even though it's a primary key, right.
But it will not be like auto fill.
You have to provide like what ID unique value or some unique value.
You have to provide.
But with the help of add the generated value annotation, you can transfer this responsibility to hibernate
also.
Okay, so at the rate generated value only works with at the rate id annotation only for single primary
key, not for the composite one.
You remember like at the rate ID class, in that we can also use at the rate id id but those are different.
Those are not the primary key one.
Those are composite key ones.
So at the rate generated value works only with rate ID annotation for single primary key one.
So what are the different types we can give.
The first type is identity.
So like this we can give.
So here I have created at the rate entity class Last given a table name.
User underscore details.
I have this three field for the long.
I have created at the rate ID it's a primary key, but I have put an at.
The generated value strategy I have given is generation type dot identity.
So this means that auto increment it's an auto increment field.
So each insert will generate a new value.
So here if you see that first time I did an insert with this object, this is the response I got ID
is created one.
Even though I haven't passed anything ID one second time I hit it with some value.
I got id two even though I haven't passed ID anything here.
Okay, internally it auto increments ID two and if you check the db it will like this 1234.
Like it will goes on okay And this is very very specific to table.
Okay.
This is very important.
And many big industries also uses this generation type dot sequence.
Okay.
Big companies use it in a little bit different flavor I can tell you.
But first understand this one used to generate unique numbers.
Okay.
Speed up the efficiency.
When we catch sequence value more control than identity we'll understand these three points more better.
Let's first see this query.
Now let's say that if I am writing a DB query you can create a sequence like this.
Hey create sequence.
You can give some name whatever you want.
Increment by 25, start with 100.
Maximum value is 9999.
So you can create a sequence.
Let's say that uh, I have one sequence which is named user underscore seq.
This is the name start value is.
Let's say 100 increment.
I have tell is 25 and max value of tell is 9999.
So now when anybody asks this that hey give me the value.
Let's say next.
Well give me the next.
Well.
So it will start with 100 not with some one, two, three.
Whatever the start you have pointed.
Then again it says that hey give me next.
Well then increment by 25 125, one 5175 200.
Like this.
It will go till it reach max 9999.
After that we can tell what to do.
Okay?
Whether we want I think cycle or no cycle means after that don't again go to 100.
Okay.
Or after that stop it okay.
So we can provide this Also, it has feature that we can cache.
It can generate, hibernate can generate, let's say 50 values only in the one time itself.
It can ask the sequence that, hey, generate 50 values and give it to me, and hibernate can cache
it in its memory so that every time it need one unique value, it don't have to ask the sequence that
hey, give me, give me, give me the next value so you can save some DB hit.
You can simply directly ask, hey, give me 50 value, give me 100 values.
It will generate it and send it to you and hibernate can store it.
So it also has that capability.
So how to define it into the entity.
Let's see that.
How to do that I am creating a new entity class at the rate ID.
So I have this three field.
And for this id I want a sequence generator like how we do it.
So how to do that.
First let's create a sequence generator.
So at the rate sequence generator is the annotation which we have to use.
This is the name.
First field name is the unique name.
But for the JPA, which in the Java classes you can use different entity.
You can use okay.
The first is the name unique.
Any name you can provide and it can be used within the classes itself.
Then second field is sequence name.
This is the name which ultimately goes to the db in the DB what name you want for this sequence.
So that will go.
Or let's say that in DB you have already created the sequence yourself, and now you want it to attach
to this sequence generator.
Then you can provide the sequence name.
So from DB it will not create new.
It will use that db.
Name one if it already has.
If it don't have it will create new initial value from where it will start.
allocation size.
This is like hibernate is asking that, hey, uh, generate five values, five unique values, and give
it to me.
So now you can say that when you have writing a direct SQL query, you have more control over max value.
You have more control over like, uh, what is the increment by 2550 or on.
So here at the rate sequence generator there are not much field, only this, so 100.
After that it will increment by one 101 102 103.
Like this.
It will go okay.
But it provide us the capability that, uh, hibernate can tell in a single shot, generate this five
unique values, give it to me and it will cache it.
Okay.
So this is for sequence generator.
Now we put at the rate generated value.
Now the strategy which we are using is sequence And generator which we are using is this one.
This okay.
So now they both got linked with this.
So now when you start an application right.
So here.
First time I hit what ID I got 100 not one because I have told like what is the initial value.
Second time I hit I got 101.
Because here in the sequence generator we don't have a capability to tell increment.
But so it's always increment by one only.
And in db it will go like this.
Okay.
So these I have already explained you what is name sequence name initial value allocation size.
So here if you see allocation size I have given five right here in this one.
So now see this.
So I am hitting five time insert.
So first time it did insert 100.
Second time 101, 102, 103, 104.
Right.
So three, four, five insert happen.
No DB call has been made.
Okay.
After that.
When six time I am doing insert okay before that it make one.
Next value with that sequence db sequence name okay hibernate will fetch another five values okay.
So that's where it says that sequence helps in caching so that we can cache certain prefetch values
unique values.
And you can use it okay.
From the cache.
You don't have to every time go and check with the DB that hey give me one unique value Okay.
So that is also one of the advantage of the sequence.
So here I can show you here in the this one.
So let's see that generated value sequence let's say.
So currently application is not running.
So I am creating a sequence generator name I am giving some unique unique um user details anything.
This is for entity.
But in the DB I want name like user underscore SKU.
I want this name in the db for this sequence okay.
And initial value I want it to start with 200 and allocation size I want three.
So in in one time it makes a db query three queries it will generate okay.
And this and this ID, I will link it with this generator equals to this name.
Okay so now they are linked.
Now I am starting my application.
So now my application got started.
Now let's see.
So here if you see the one sequence is created.
What is the sequence name.
User underscore SKU.
Right.
This is the name right.
User underscore SKU I have given this is the name db name initial value is 200 and increment by three.
So generally here this is wrong like incremented is one allocation size.
I have provided three here in hibernate.
Allocation size means in the three three chunk whenever any it it will make a query for the sequence.
It will get three IDs in return and store it.
Okay, now let's say that the first time I am making a post call, let's say a.
So when I'm hitting it, it started with ID 200.
Okay.
So if we see the lock.
So first time it make a query.
Hey give me the because the insert we are doing the insert for the first time right.
So it will make one db query to take out the sequence from the DB unique sequence and the allocation
size.
I have given three, so means three IDs it has got and stored it, so then it inserted it.
Then I hit another two times one two.
So now here if you see it does insert does insert.
But it did not make any query for the sequence to give any value because it already has.
Now the fourth time I do here, if you see It makes one query select next value from user underscore
sequence okay.
And then it does insert.
Now again another two times you won't see anything right.
So here if you see another two times you don't see anything.
And if you make now again you will see uh select query for the user sequence okay.
And.
You can ask me like hey what is the advantage of sequence over identity.
First thing I'll tell you that sequence is very important.
What many companies does is they have a separate very small microservice which expose some API and which
many microservices are using it to generate sequence, generate sequence, generate sequence.
So one advantage we already see that this sequence right.
It is not tied up with very specific to a table.
It is a total separate logic, and that's why it can be considered as a separate microservice.
And it takes a control.
And you can say that a centralized, we can have all the logic which takes care of all the unique value
key generation, and it helps or fulfill all the different microservices.
So we can have custom logic.
One advantage of sequence over identity is we can have custom logic sequence generation logic is independent
of table.
So multiple table can use it right.
So even if you have ten tables those can use it like so.
It can helps to generate a unique number for those ten.
It's not very specific tied up to a specific table in identity.
It is very tied up like auto increment of a table.
So where it tied up range of IDs can be cached.
So we can avoid hitting database each time a new ID is required and another is better.
Portability means identity is very DB specific.
Some DB autoincrement is different.
Maybe Oracle is different, MySQL is different.
Postgres is different.
How the auto autoincrement works.
And let's say that today you are in Oracle and you wanted to move to MySQL there.
Auto Autoincrement works totally different.
So portability brings an issue.
But if you are using sequence, since you are taking the responsibility, what should be the start?
How much should be increment?
What should be the end?
So portability is like easy, better portability.
You can move from different DB as the consistent behavior you can have into multiple DB's okay, because
you have more control.
So there is one more like generation type dot table.
I will not explain that because it hardly used in the industry.
So there is like how we are using here at the rate sequence generator, right?
Similarly there is something called at the rate table generator.
This annotation is used, but it's very less efficient.
Why?
Because here a new table is created just for let's say maintaining the sequence okay.
It has one column let's say sequence.
And it, it keep on adding.
You can say that let's say one column, one value, it keep on incrementing and it gives the value.
But a new table is created and it's very less efficient you know.
Right.
Why a separate table is created just for maintaining unique ID.
Each time ID is required, select and update query is executed.
First you make a Select query.
Hey, give me the value it will return.
Let's say this is the well and second time you update it, change from 1 to 2.
Now this should be the next value.
Now you know that when a table is involved, a complexity comes when the concurrency handling.
When multiple operation is happening in parallel, it required lock unlock feature also which can lead
to performance bottleneck.
Now let's say current value is for this table S is one.
Now to uh insert operation comes and they both want what should be the next value I can use for the
primary key.
Now the goes to this table.
And since this table we they have to put a lock right.
So one have to put a lock.
Consume it okay I will use one and increment it to two.
So that second one it can use two okay.
But remember that in sequence it's an atomic counter.
There is no table.
There is no table involved.
It's just a counter.
So it's much more efficient and faster okay.
And DB is only handling it that counter.
Okay.
So here now this logic comes to you in the table.
You as soon as table comes you have to maintain it.
But that DB internally handles sequence like whatever the counter it has atomic counter it will handle
like 1 to 2 like.
So even though concurrency happen, it makes sure that only one of them, uh, all of them get the unique
value.
Okay.
So that's why I in nine years I have never seen that at the table generator is used.
But I can tell you that this sequence is very, very used.
Okay.
So in next part I will cover all this relationship association 1 to 1, one to many.
And in then part seven last part I will cover the custom queries, criteria, queries, pagination and
sorting.
So only these two left and hopefully I will complete it as soon as possible.

--- Spring boot: JPA  | OneToOne Mapping Unidirectional and Bidirectional ---

Happy New Year and welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in Spring Boot we are going to do very important topic like you can call it association types
or mappings like 1 to 1 mapping, one to many many to many etc..
So let's start without wasting any time with 1 to 1 unidirectional okay, so one entity, let's say
A references only one instance of another entity, okay.
But reference exists only in one direction that is from parent to child okay.
That's why 1 to 1 unidirectional only one sided direction.
So for example user one user can have only one address.
So here we can have a reference.
User can have a reference of address.
And it is like only one sided from user.
You can get the address details but from address you can't get the user detail.
No.
So reference only exists at the one side from user to address, and there is 1 to 1, one user, one
address.
That's all.
So similar kind of example I have shown here.
So I have created one entity with the table name like user underscore detail.
Okay.
So this is my entity user details.
It has certain fields like primary key ID name phone.
And I also wanted to have a reference of user address.
Okay.
So user address I have created another entity but I wanted to store it a reference like a foreign key.
So that's why I use it at the rate 1 to 1 annotation.
Cascade equals to cascade type dot all.
So don't worry about this cascade type.
We will discuss in depth.
But first focus on this at the rate 1 to 1 annotation.
So what this add the rate 1 to 1 annotation is doing is inside this user detail.
Or you can say that user underscore detail Detailed table.
It creates one foreign key.
Okay.
And that foreign key is like this ID user address ID okay.
So from user details you can access user address.
But it's only one way.
That's why it is known as 1 to 1 unidirectional okay.
So user address has certain like what is the street city state, country, pin code and some unique
ID which I called a primary key.
Okay.
And it's a generation Typekit identity.
You already know that automatically it will increment.
Okay.
So this is how a table look like in the user detailed table.
You will see that all these columns will be there.
So ID name phone apart from that one foreign key okay.
And uh it would be user address.
So by default see I, we haven't given any name for this uh, foreign key.
Right?
So hibernate will create like field name whatever the field name underscore id so user underscore address
underscore id it will create.
So this was the foreign key and foreign key of this thing okay.
For the user address okay.
This ID is equivalent to user underscore address underscore ID.
And this is a foreign key in this table user underscore detail table okay.
So by default hibernate choose the foreign key name as underscore name underscore ID.
So I already told you if you don't give any name here of this uh reference how this user underscore
address underscore ID came and it chooses the primary key of another table.
So here also if you see I only tell hey 1 to 1 mapping and this entity so it automatically chooses the
primary key.
Okay, as the reference for a foreign key here in this table.
But if you need a more control over it, we can use add the join column annotation.
Okay.
You don't want hibernate to choose the name for you.
And also you don't want like uh, you want to specifically mention by yourself what key you want to
create as a foreign key.
Okay.
So what you can do is you can use here like 1 to 1 cascade type.
Don't worry about it.
So but 1 to 1 annotation.
So this will tell that in this entity or in this table user underscore details table there will be one
foreign key of this entity.
Now what is the name of that foreign key.
So now we are specifically mentioning at the right joint column, what is the name I want address underscore
ID okay to be shown in the table.
So here if you see address underscore ID is coming not user underscore address underscore ID.
Also I am here specifically mentioning that what primary key column what foreign key column is pointing
to in the other entity.
So ID so it is specifically I am mentioning this one.
But here you can have one question that, hey, what about the composite key when we have more than
uh, two columns then how hibernate by default will choose that what to provide then it will not work.
By default you have to provide using at the join column that in case of composite key.
So I will show you how.
Okay.
So the same question comes to our mind.
What about the composite key?
How to reference it?
We need to use add the join columns.
Okay, so from the previous video you already know how to create a composite key.
So now let's say in the user address entity okay I want these two columns Street and PINCode to be considered
as a composite key.
Let's say for example these two combinedly is a unique field.
Okay.
So I am using this approach at the rate embeddable.
So I created a new class user address composite key.
And I added all the fields which together creating a composite key.
Okay.
Now in the user address I am using at the rate embedded ID and using the creating an object of this.
Right.
And this is the I'm calling it as an ID and all the other fields of the user address.
Okay.
So user address would look like.
Like a normal city country Pin code, state street, all the fields like street, street, pin code,
city, state, country.
And you can check that it is considered as a inside this your address.
This table address.
This is your composite key.
Okay.
Now we have a composite key.
Now I want to create 1 to 1 unidirectional mapping okay.
So from user detail.
So I'm creating an another entity user details.
It has certain its own field like primary key name phone.
Now I want to create a foreign key.
Or you can say that it should have a reference to user address okay.
But now it has composite key how I would create it okay.
So first of all I have added like defined the field user address this one.
Now I have annotated with at the rate 1 to 1.
This will tell that to the JPA that this would.
This table contains a foreign key.
Okay.
Uh, for this entity.
Now what what should be the name and what should be the column?
Or you can say that the ID this foreign key points to.
So I am using at the join columns.
Okay.
In case of composite key we have to provide all the IDs.
Composite IDs here let's say.
Now this is an array right.
So inside join columns like this you have to provide all the composite keys like at the join column
name equals to I give address underscore street reference column name street this one.
And another at the join column address pin code.
This is the name which I wanted okay.
And what is the reference column name pin code.
This one.
So all the fields of the composite key I need to mention like this.
By default hibernate don't know or JPA don't know what key it has to use.
In case of composite key, you have to specifically mention like this.
So now here if you see the user underscore detailed table how it gonna look like ID this one name phone.
It has name phone and then address underscore street and address underscore pincode address underscore
street and address underscore pin code so address in the user detail table address pin code and street.
This is a foreign key Okay.
And what columns it pointing to?
This pin code is pointing to this one, and this street is pointing to this one.
Okay.
This is what we pointed.
Okay.
Now, before we proceed further with other mappings like 1 to 1 bidirectional, many to one, there
are few things which we have to see.
Like what is cascade type?
Now we have seen that when we are providing a mapping like at the rate 1 to 1 cascade equals to cascade
type dot all what it is man like why we are using this.
What's the purpose of it.
So let's see that what all values it can take.
First cascade type.
So cascade type can have six values all persist merge remove refresh and detach.
So without cascade type any operation on parent do not affect child entity.
Managing child entities explicitly can be error prone.
So consider this.
You have a parent entity.
And it has one child entity.
I can say that the life of a child here depends on the parent.
Or you can say that existence of a child entity depends on a parent entity.
If parent entity is destroyed, child entity should also get destroyed.
Okay.
If parent entity is created, child entity is also be created if parent entity updated if required.
If there is any update child entity should also get updated.
Okay, so we can say that whenever a use case where child entity exists and depend upon the parent entity,
this casket type can help us with that in managing it if they are not like if they are independent,
like if you are deleting parent but child entity is not deleted, say it could be an error prone right?
When we are saying one time that child entity existing is depend on parent only for example school and
rooms.
So here room existing is on school.
If school destroyed, room is also destroyed.
Right?
So there is no way where like school is finished.
Then you have still have school rooms available.
So just a use case.
So cascade help in managing that any operation on parent.
Right.
So this is without cascade type with cascade type any operation or parent effect child entity also.
So let's say that first cascade type is persist as the name clearly says that persist means inserting.
So inserting the user entity user.
Here it is our parent.
So inserting the parent entity automatically possesses associated user address entity data which is
you can say that child.
So if you are inserting the parent entity automatically its associated child entity get inserted to.
So here in this use case here if you see.
Very basic 1 to 1 unidirectional only I have a user details.
Uh so it has certain fields.
I am creating a foreign key here, 1 to 1 annotation.
And I'm just specifically wanted to give the name.
So at the join column address ID as a foreign key name and what column it should point to other entities.
This ID okay.
Now here I have given cascade equals to cascade type dot persist Okay.
So means whenever you are inserting this table, user address will also get inserted its child because
this is its child right user address.
So that will also get inserted.
So now here if you see very simple example this is one controller class of a user details okay.
So I am inserting just calling the save user.
So this is the service class and service class ultimately calling repository.
Nothing difference like we have already seen this before.
So now here I am trying to do an insert.
So I'm calling a post API, this post API.
And I'm passing this body.
So in this body it is accepting user details.
So this user details it is accepting so name phone.
So here I'm providing name phone.
And here inside this user address Object.
Street.
City.
State.
Country.
PINCode.
I have provided the body.
Now when I invoke this okay, it ultimately calls save.
Okay.
Now what's the response I got here?
If you see the response, I got an ID okay.
And here inside this user address I also got the ID like this I am getting a response.
So means a row has been created in the user detail table and also in the user address table.
Also see.
Bangalore Karnataka 123.
So see all data got created in both the table.
So that's what.
Why?
Because of persist.
Even though I am calling a save on user details, but still it goes ahead and updated its child entity
two.
That's why Cascade type dot persist does.
Similarly, cascade type dot merge works on the update.
Updating the user entity automatically updates its associated child user address entity.
So, for example, let's first see what happens if we use only persist cascade type and try to update
it.
Okay, I'm not using merge for now.
Only persist.
So this is the controller class.
This is the post.
This is the put okay.
And the user details.
It will call the update.
And here it's a very simple right.
Uh first based on the ID I will see if data is present.
If data is present I will update it with this new object which is coming.
Okay.
So here you might be saying that hey for insert.
Also we are calling save and for update.
Also we are calling save as I already.
If you can recall from the previous video I have already mentioned that in this user patch in the body
you will also pass ID field, right?
Or whatever the primary key.
So internally it has the logic that if it's not a new entity means ID primary key is present instead
of inserting it goes for updation.
So that's logic is internally there.
And I have already explained that one.
Okay.
So this is very basic class which we already know.
Now what exactly we wanted to test here is first we are trying to do an insert operation.
So insert operation is very very similar like what we were doing.
We are trying to this is my body and I'm trying to insert name phone number of the user.
And also I'm providing the user address object.
So as you can see properly got inserted ID here got created.
And also for the user address.
It got created.
Properly created.
Okay.
So till now we know that persist helps that cascade type persist.
But now what happen if I do merge?
Second.
Now I'm trying to do update.
So here if you see now I'm calling a put API.
Okay.
I'm trying to update this one.
User one.
This one.
Now here if you see this is the object I am passing okay.
So I am also passing ID because so that it can internally go for update operation not insert.
So for id one the name I am updating to XYZ underscore updated.
But also if you see user address, I am also change the city from Bangalore to Bengaluru.
I change it.
But now here if you see the response what happening?
The name got properly updated but in the user address the city got changed.
No.
It didn't.
Why?
Because of this.
Persist.
Okay.
So persist.
Only take care of insertion.
But we have to use for updation.
We have to use merge because for updation, it will make sure that any update happening on user entity,
if there is any update happening on the child entity, that should automatically get updated too.
So now if I change it that yes, persist also wanted and merge also I wanted.
So like this you can give at the rate 1 to 1 on this user detail and in the cascade equals to.
In this kind of an array you can provide all whatever the cascade we wanted.
So let's say I wanted persistent merge.
Okay.
Now what happen is so insert properly happen now in update I am again trying the same two things I'm
trying to update.
One is in the user and one is under the user address.
Now here if you see both get updated properly.
So it's name city name also changed and the user name also got changed here in the user detail table.
Okay so Cascade happened properly from parent to child.
Similarly I think by now you can already know that what remove would be doing deleting the user entity
automatically delete its associated user address.
Or you can say that child entity.
So here I am creating one delete mapping.
Okay whatever the ID comes I am just calling this service to delete it, that's all.
I am calling 1 to 1 mapping here in the user details, which has which is a foreign key holding a foreign
key.
And here I am also appending remove I want persist I want merge and I also want remove capability.
So let's say that I first do an insert properly inserted.
Now if I am doing delete operation here, if you see I am calling delete operation this I am creating
its 204.
No content properly got deleted because I am returning this.
No content so properly got deleted.
And if you check the table there is no row.
Okay, so even though I am calling delete operation on user detail parent here, if you see I am calling
delete user okay from id, I am calling delete by id on user details repository, but again still it
able to delete the user address table also because of cascade type remove.
Similarly there are two more cascade type refresh and detach which is less frequently used.
Okay.
Both are very less frequently used.
But let me again tell you, uh, just for reference purpose, but hardly.
We use it.
So here, if you notice, right.
Whenever internally we call save.
You already know about entity manager.
I have already explained entity manager in depth during first level caching.
Right.
So entity manager has multiple method like persist okay.
So even though let's say that from user repository, when you are calling dot save internally save what
it is using is Entity manager object only and it's called persist method.
Similarly, Entity Manager has multiple method and one of the method is called refresh.
Okay, so what refresh does is you know that entity manager holds persistence context persistence context
help in first level caching okay.
So when you invoke this refresh method.
It bypasses the persistence context and Entitymanager directly query the DB.
That's what it is.
Use refresh.
Okay, so here if you see when you do cascade type refresh what we what we have to do here, when we
use cascade type dot refresh, we tell JPA to not only read parent entity from DB, but its associated
child entity too.
Okay.
So see in this case okay, this is user detail parent and this is user address.
This is a foreign key.
I'm creating 1 to 1.
But cascade type I'm putting refresh.
What does it mean that internally whenever let's say hibernate generally we never do entity manager
dot refresh okay I've never seen such use case But let's say in some point of time, hibernate wanted
to directly hit DB instead of first level caching, and internally it might be calling refresh for on
user detail entity because it want user detail to read directly from DB, not from persistence context.
So this cascade type refresh makes sure that even the user address is directly read from DB, not from
the persistence context.
So you got that point.
So this is to generally refresh method is to bypass the persistence context.
First level caching.
And this cascade type makes sure that you bypass for your child associated child tables also.
Similarly Cascade Typekit detach entity manager has one more method called detach like persist like
refresh.
Similarly detach.
You know that I have already explained in the previous videos the life cycle life cycle of an entity
who manage it.
You can know that like persistence, context like holds the lifecycle of an entity till the entity is
in persistence context, it holds its lifecycle like any update insertion, deletion, updation.
Okay.
But if you want to detach it, okay means JPA is not managing the lifecycle.
Now if you want to detach it, you call the detach method okay.
So when we use Cascade Typekit detach we tell JPA to not only detach parent entity but its associated
child entities too.
Okay, that's what only its purpose.
Generally we never use this cascade type, but just for reference.
Also we never use detached method.
Also internally hibernate might be using it like for what purpose?
We don't know when, but let's say in any use case it want to because to save the memory or whatever
the use case, it want to remove the object or entity from the persistence context, it don't want to
manage it.
Okay.
So what it do is it do detach.
And this time make sure that you detach its child entities to.
Okay.
And the last one is that casket type dot all.
So instead of using like in an array or comma casket type dot refresh comma we can simply use casket
type dot all means.
We want all the casket type capability persist merge remove refresh and detach okay.
Okay.
So one question should have come to your mind by now.
We saw insert update remove operation okay cascade type okay.
When insert is happening because of this cascade type child table.
Also get inserted when update is happening on parent because of the cascade type merge child table.
Also get updated similarly for remove on the parent cascade type child got also removed.
But what about get?
We haven't discussed it.
So during Get means reading the entity, so does child entities always get loaded with parent entity?
Because if you are trying to fetch parent entity like user details does, user address will always get
loaded.
Answer is yes, or we can or we cannot.
It depends what our use case.
So there are two type of loading.
Eager loading and lazy loading.
So eager loading means associated entity like child entity is loaded immediately along with the parent.
Whenever you do a get call on the parent child entity is also loaded immediately.
And if you see for 1 to 1 and many to one, this is the default mapping.
So here if you see 1 to 1 annotation what is the fetch default type is eager.
Similarly for many to one, if you see it's a functional interface, what is the fetch type?
Default is eager.
Similarly for lazy loading means associated entities not loaded immediately, Only loaded when explicitly
accessed, like when we call.
Let's say for example, I am calling user detail get user address.
So here I am trying to access it.
So it make another Select query.
Okay.
So here if you see it is default for one to many and many to many.
Like for if you see one to many, what is the default fetch type?
Lazy.
Similarly for many to many, what is the default fetch type is again lazy.
So in short, if you are using eager loading and you are querying the parent entity, generally whatever
the select query it will make select, it will make with left join.
Okay, you are like select your parent entity left join your child entity always.
But if you are using lazy loading.
So first it will do only select query on parent entity.
Okay.
And now on demand.
If your code internally doing trying to access the child entity here user address my child right.
If your parent is trying to access the child then it make another Select query with left join okay with
parent and your child.
Then it make another left another select query with left join.
It fetch the data and then return okay.
And another things comes to mind that hey why for 1 to 1 it's uh fetch type is eager why for many to
one fetch type is eager and why many to many and one to many.
It's lazy.
So see, this is my understanding.
Whenever like 1 to 1, many to one means this parent have only one child.
only one child.
So JPA do an assumption that since there is only one child entity, so possibly it might be required
while accessing parent.
And since it's a one, so it might not be a much impact on the performance.
But when we have like one to many, many to many means many child's, how many we don't know do we do
do parent required all the child's okay.
So here JPA don't know that.
So that's why it uses default lazy based on the demand.
It might load it sometime based on the demand.
If I do a left join, maybe I will just filter out whatever the child rows I wanted.
Maybe not.
If there are so many things I just only want two child's, I can fetch those with the query.
Okay.
So we can control this behavior.
Yes, we can control like if I want.
So currently this is the default.
But what if I want to control that.
Yes.
For 1 to 1 also I want lazy.
For one to many also I want eager.
Like I want to control.
On my way.
Can we do that?
Yes, we can do that easily.
So here, if you see this is the entity, very basic entity like what we are seeing parent right.
User details.
My parent this is its fields.
This is the foreign key which I am creating.
Okay.
This is the name of the foreign key.
And this is the column for in this entity which is going to be associated.
And here I am using 1 to 1 cascade equals to all you already know.
Now here I am putting fetch equals to fetch type dot lazy.
So even for 1 to 1 default is eager.
Now I am overriding it with lazy.
So now this fetch type, I am overriding it.
Fetch field.
I'm overriding it.
Okay, so now if we can try testing this code, let's try testing this code.
First do an insert operation.
So here I am calling a post operation on the user.
So it got properly inserted okay so I have provided name phone number for the user and also the address.
Now here if you see user detail also get properly populated I got the id.
Similarly user address details also got properly populated.
I got the id okay, so insert happened properly.
Both the tables got inserted.
User detail table and user address table both got populated.
Now I am doing a get operation.
Okay I am trying this API, get API and I am trying to fetch this user which is created.
This user which is created.
Now what?
My expectation is first, my expectation is that only this data will come.
ID name and phone.
This user address won't come because I have put lazy and I had nowhere in the code.
I am here just I am doing find by in the get call.
I am just doing find by ID and nowhere in the code I am doing like user dot user address so it should
not get loaded.
So what output I am seeing internal error failure.
Now this is question why am in why failure?
So here what happening is.
Get operation failed because of loading user address lazily.
Now since we are put a lazy lazy on the user address right foreign key part.
So during response building.
So it has properly during get call it has properly created the select query.
It has properly made the select query okay and it fetch only the user details.
It has fetch only the user details.
Now it is creating a response.
Now this response doesn't have user data, user address data and during response serialization Jackson
got failed it.
Don't know how to serialize this data user address since that it is missing.
Okay, so here if you see serialization got failed which is by Jackson.
Okay, so Jackson doesn't know how to serialize the data like because user address data is not even
present and you know that why it is not present because we have specifically mentioned lazy.
So that's why it might have internally hit a Select query.
Select query on parent table that is user underscore detail table so it doesn't make a left join and
user address details is not even fetched.
So in this case user data user address data is missing.
So during serialization Jackson failed it.
Don't know how to serialize it.
So how to fix it?
So before we fix it, one thing should come to a man then.
Hey, how for insert?
It worked.
Why?
There is no serialization during insert so during insert.
Also when I try to insert in the response I get user plus user address.
Also how come now because user address I have put lazy, I have put lazy.
Then how come this response has come in the insert?
So now remember that during insert operation, what we are doing is we are first creating an object.
We are having entity, user detail entity and user address entity, both the entity we put into persistence
context.
And then we inserted into DB.
Okay.
Now while constructing a response it try to fetch the user detail and user address entity does it has
to query the DB.
No, because both the objects are in memory in the persistence context, in the same call, see, in
the same insert call, we first insert it into the persistent context, then into the db user address
table.
Both got inserted.
Now in the same insert same entity manager.
We are using same entity manager and during the response it try to fetch both the object so it will
return from persistence context only.
That's why it didn't fail during sterilization, because user address is entities also filled up properly.
But in case of when I make a Get call it is creating a new entity manager.
So this and this persistent context is not accessible for the new entity manager.
So persistent contact doesn't have this to user detail and user address.
So try to access from DB and in the DB.
Because of this lazy it make only select query on the user detail table.
User address is not even left.
Join with it.
So that's why during response creation of the get call, Jackson doesn't know how to serialize the user
address object, this one how to serialize it and that's why it failed.
Okay, so now let's see that how to resolve it.
So one way is that use JSON ignore.
So in this my foreign key right.
This is my foreign key.
Here I put JSON ignore so JSON ignore.
What it will do is that Jackson will not even put it into the response.
It will simply ignore it.
Okay, so now here I have used this.
So even if you see that now during the get call I am getting only user details.
This user address is totally missed even though it is missing because of lazy.
Okay.
There is no serialization issue because Jason Jackson saw that a JSON ignore is there, so I don't need
to serialize itself, but it will remove the user address field totally for both lazy and eager.
Also, even if you change it to eager, then also you won't get the user address now because we are
specifically telling Jackson to ignore this.
Now what shall we do?
So another thing we can do is using the DTO data transfer object.
This to me looks more clean and recommended approach.
So see those who don't know what DTO write data transfer object.
So here see this is your controller.
See this.
Okay.
This is your service class.
And let's say this is your repository.
And ultimately this is your entity.
And this entity looks exactly to your DB.
So till now whenever any response goes out from DB to repository to service to controller.
So we are returning this entity only.
Okay.
And this entity is equivalent to our DB tables.
Generally returning the entity itself is not recommended.
Why?
Because let's say that in your table you have.
Columns like say a, b c, d e okay.
And you have this.
You don't want outer world to know exactly what is your column name and what.
All fields are present.
You only want to return what client expected.
You want client to see.
I only want this three columns to see.
This two is for always for my internal purpose D and E.
I don't want it to go outside when.
And also I don't want a, B, c exact my columns name to be seen outside.
So what I can do is I can create a DTO.
Let's say this is entity A so I can create a DTO, let's say entity A, DTO.
So here I can put only those fields which I want.
Let's say for a I want to call like say proxy A for B, I can say proxy B some different name.
So that outer world doesn't know what column name I have okay.
And here if you see D, D and E I don't want outer world to see.
So I don't have D and E into my DTO.
So here now from repository to service and before controller goes out to the entity it do mapping.
Mapping from your entity to DTO.
You fill the DTO, you create a DTO object and you fill the entity.
You fill these values and then ultimately return the DTO.
So outer wall only aware of the dtos.
Okay.
So that's where I'm saying we can make use of DTO to avoid this serialization issue.
Okay now you can say that.
Hey how?
So now let's say that I created this DTO user DTO.
And I said that these are all the fields which I wanted to go out ID, user ID, user name, phone number
and only address.
Okay.
Now here, if you see that my dto I want address right.
So now in the constructor I am setting this.
So here I'm just printing System.out.println.
Going to query user address here now.
So user address user detail dot get user address.
So now you are making sure that since you need address.
Here you are invoking the user address specifically.
So by our understanding, we know that at this point of time a query select query would be make with
the left join and user address data would be fetch.
Okay.
And after that this got filled up.
And once got filled up not equals to null.
Then whatever the I wanted to only send the street address.
Depending what you want, you can fill it up.
Okay.
So here, if you see that this makes sure that you are aware of what you are doing.
You are not relying on Jackson that to catch the issue.
So now you are aware that okay in the response I need to send the address, even though whether I would
be using lazy or eagerly, I don't know.
I am checking if the get user is address is not equals to null, then I'm setting it as.
Otherwise I will put it null.
So any some value would be present in my DTO.
Okay.
And ultimately this DTO will go out.
And even though it's a lazy you know that at this point of time a query would be made and it will always
get filled up.
Okay.
So here, if you see that this is my parent entity, user detail everything same 1 to 1 I am using fetch
type lazy.
Okay.
And this is my foreign key.
Okay.
And I have created just one method here.
Like whatever the user details would be present.
If I call two DTO method, it will ultimately creating a new DTO object which I created for this one
class.
It's called its constructor and pass the this entity.
And from this one I am doing actually a mapping.
So this mapping I told you right from entity to DTO.
That's all I'm doing from the entity.
I'm just filling whatever I needed.
And in the controller.
In the controller.
During get call first I am doing find by ID so it find by ID ultimately it will return me the user detail
from that user detail object I am calling to DTO.
So this one.
So this DTO will create a DTO object and whatever the object is coming in the entity, it will pass
this to here.
And from this I will fill up whatever I required.
Now see the behavior calling a get call on user one.
Okay so here if you see output I am getting is ID name phone address.
This is my DTO which I created.
ID name phone and address and address called filled up.
Yes, even though I created it.
Lazy.
Why?
Let's see that.
See the behavior?
So first I have done an insertion.
Right.
So here I haven't shown the insertion, but that is same.
So it inserted into user detail and also in the user address.
So I have the data both present.
Now I am calling this get call one with the lazy user detail is marked lazy.
So here if you see select query is made.
So from I am getting a name id phone address id from this.
So here if you see no no left join is made on user table user address table plane select query on the
parent.
Okay so user address data will not be fetched at this point of time.
So it will ultimately return it.
Now find by ID done select query made.
Now we're calling to DTO.
So two DTO it will go.
It will create a user DTO object.
Now I am filling whatever I wanted.
Now it will print going to query user address here now.
So now here it printed going to query user data here now.
So here if you see at this point of time I am trying to say that user detail get user address.
So because it was lazy, now I am trying to reference it.
So now one more Select query would be made.
So here if you see one more select query would be made.
Okay.
So now it is fetching the user address data for this foreign key like so.
Now it will fetch the user address data.
And put it.
Now it gets addressed would be filled up.
Okay.
So you got the behavior.
Like how we can avoid the serialization issue in the DTO is much safer.
I would say that because you are totally aware that if you need the child, then you have to call like
this so that, uh, it make one select query.
If you don't need it, don't add it so it will not even try to.
You will not even try to add it.
And ultimately during the DTO, uh, serialization, no issue will come.
So means you are creating or updating the fields of your DTO.
So either would be null or some value would be present.
Okay, so now till now what we have seen is 1 to 1 unidirectional.
And with this unidirectional, I have already told you what is cascade type?
Okay.
And also.
I have showed you the different like, uh.
Different behavior.
Like eager loading and the lazy loading.
Now let's see.
1 to 1 bidirectional.
So till now, what we have seen is 1 to 1 unidirectional means you have one parent entity.
It has a foreign key which is a child entity.
And this foreign key on this ID primary key on this table primary key.
And you can only access in one direction parent entity to child entity and there is no way to backtrack.
So in 1 to 1 bidirectional, you can also travel backward from child to parent.
But remember table structure do not even change.
Both entities hold reference to each other.
Means user detail has reference to user address.
User address also has a reference to user details.
User address also has reference to user details, but that doesn't mean that this is also also has a
foreign key of this.
No.
In the bidirectional the this the child right?
The child also has a reference to your parent, but only in object, not in db.
So DB structure would still be the same.
Only one foreign key into the parent entity.
Okay.
But in the object we also hold a reference from child to parent.
I will show you how.
So in the bidirectional there is a concept called owner side.
And the inverse side.
Owner side is generally known as your.
Parent side which holds the foreign key.
Inverse size is generally known as your child entity okay.
So owner side holds the foreign key relationship in a table.
If you see our previous example like similarly I have created a user detailed entity table.
These are its field.
Now I want a user address as a foreign key.
Like before I have created at the rate 1 to 1 annotation cascade type all.
You already know what it will do.
And specifically I don't rely on hibernate, so I'm just telling hey, this is the name I want for my
foreign key and this is the column on this user address entity.
This is the foreign key selected okay.
Now this is till now I have done one sided like unidirectional but in the bidirectional in this entity
user address entity okay.
It is all its field.
Now this is also holds a reference of user details.
It is holding a reference of user details.
But one difference you will see that here is in the 1 to 1 annotation like here.
We can also use it here.
But here I'm telling that hey map by Map it to this user address.
Okay.
Map it to this user address.
So now in this case what would happen is from user user address.
Also you can access user details like in inverse direction reverse direction.
And also it will not create any foreign key like in this table even though we are using 1 to 1.
Why?
Because of this map by field.
This makes sure that only in object Java object right?
During your code you can do a back like backtrack to your parent.
Okay.
So we will see an example.
It will get clear.
So here first of all look at the table.
The table will look exactly the same from user detail, all its field and only one foreign key address
ID, which we give okay.
And in the user address you have all its field.
There is nothing like a user address underscore ID showed up now nothing okay because of the map by.
So what would happen.
But since we have the backward capability how we can utilize it?
Let's see that I am creating a controller and service class for the user address, because I want to
test the backward capability.
Now if you work on this user address, can I go in the backward direction?
Okay.
Even though you my user address doesn't hold any reference of the user detail how it would be doing
it.
So here I have created one simple controller okay, for the user address I am creating a a get API and
user address id and this is my service class user address service.
So this is the object name we can create user address service.
Okay so this would be user address service object name.
Uh this is just a field name.
Uh class object is properly for the user address service only.
So it will invoke this and ultimately it will call find by ID.
So this is very basic but I created for user address.
Now let's check the behavior.
First I am calling an insert operation like before using user detail controller API like the parent
one which I showed earlier.
So I am calling this post API and my user detail object and the user address.
Okay, uh, row got properly inserted into the table.
Okay.
Data is inserted into user address table and in the user detail table.
All fine.
Now I am doing a get API call on user address.
What is your expectation at this point of time?
My expectation is that since I am calling on user address.
Okay.
What it will do is when it will fetch it.
It will fetch ID street, city, state, country, pin code.
Since I have used map by user detail, it will create one query to fetch its detail also.
Okay.
So I would have a user address detail also plus user details.
Let's see that.
Will that.
So now here if you see oops what it is.
You have user address, id, street, city, state, country.
Also user detail what we were expecting but again what happening again.
User address again.
User detail again user address.
Some infinite recursion happen.
What happened?
This is not the expectation.
Why it going infinite?
It should have.
Stop, right.
See I'll tell you what happened when we hit a get query here okay.
As expected.
First it make a Select query with left join from user address to user detail on the here from the user
address.
What is the column address ID right uh id and in the user underscore detail table address underscore
id.
So it created this select query and it is trying to.
Okay.
It is trying to fetch the.
Where is that?
Yeah, it is trying to fetch the user detail backward from the user.
It is trying to fetch the user details by putting a left join.
Left join on this address ID and this id okay so it is doing correctly.
But then why it goes to the infinite recursion loop.
So what exactly happen is during response construction Jackson is doing serialization.
You know that.
So during serialization what happen is Jackson starts serializing user address after user address is
serialized.
Okay.
User address is has like street city state country pin code.
After that it see that okay it encounter user details object user detail.
So now it has to serialize user detail.
So it starts serializing it.
User detail has ID what name and phone.
After that it find in the user detail.
Also because of bidirectional here if you see because of bidirectional user detail also has reference
of user address.
So Jackson again goes to user address.
Now again it goes to serialize street city state again.
Then again it's a user detail.
Then again it goes to this one it again parsing serializing it.
So that's why it goes here in the infinite recursion.
So first it properly fetching user address.
Then it was serializing the user detail.
After that it find out user address.
Then again it started parsing serializing it while parsing user address.
Again, find user detail and goes on.
And then ultimately it failed.
So infinite recursion issue is something which we have to handle if we are going with bidirectional
mapping.
Very important.
Okay.
So how we can handle this.
So there are two ways.
One is by using at the rate JSON manage reference and JSON back reference annotation.
So JSON manage reference annotation.
We should use only in owing entity.
There is no hard and fast rule, but it's recommended that you use this only on the owning entity owner
parent which holds a foreign key relationship.
It tells explicitly JSON to go ahead and serialize the child entity.
Similarly like.
User detail.
In the user detail, it has name, phone number and also user address.
So here if I use at the rate JSON manage reference, I am allowing that.
Hey Jackson you go ahead and serialize it.
Okay.
Similarly JSON back reference is used on the child entity.
It tell explicitly to not serialize the parent entity.
See this example.
Same thing.
Bidirectional.
This is my parent.
Okay.
I am holding a foreign key.
I am putting at the rate column.
Okay.
This is and I'm putting at the rate JSON manage reference means explicitly telling JSON.
Hey you can go ahead and serialize it whenever you are serializing user details.
And whenever you find user address you can serialize it.
Similarly, in the child entity okay I have this fields and then use a detail.
It has a back reference right.
User detail.
And this is just a mapping not table.
It's a bidirectional I am putting map by.
So no foreign key would be created.
So it just map by by user address this field.
Okay so here I have put at the JSON back reference means hey whenever you find this do not serialize
it.
So now if you call a API on the parent first I am calling on the parent.
Just see that user one not user underscore hyphen address.
So if you call on the parent so parent this would be hit.
So in response you will also get this because you are allowing it to serialize it.
So you saw in the response user address also.
But if you make a get call on the child user hyphen address so means you will find this data.
And after that it identify this, then you have told it.
Hey, Jason.
Back reference means don't go.
Don't go and serialize it.
So here if you see you don't see user detail itself.
But here you can say that hey, when I go from child to parent I also want here user detailed data only,
but without recursion, without infinite recursion.
How we can do that?
Yes, we can do that with JSON identity info.
So here in this case, for every object we try to give some unique ID and Jackson will utilize it to
make sure that it's already serialized before or not.
So here, if you see I am not using any back reference or manage reference very.
This is similar to what my by 1 to 1 bidirectional.
So here I have put at the rate 1 to 1.
This hold my foreign key.
This is my child.
And here I am putting map by to this user address.
Okay so now in this I am not putting any back reference.
So but this is I am using at the entity level JSON entity identity info annotation.
So here we have providing the property and the field generally we provide is which is unique.
So here in this user detail what field is unique is this.
So generally I provide this.
You can provide any other field but it should be unique because this you can say that Jackson internally
use it to make sure that hey this with this ID user detail is already constructed serialized or not.
Okay.
So there is something to break the infinite recursion.
Similarly for user address, I want certain unique value for the property.
So here also I have a id.
This is my unique, so I use it here.
If there is any something like address underscore id you can put address underscore ID but it should
be unique.
Now if you make a Get call.
So now let's say I am making a get call on the parent first this one.
So here I got properly first parent detail and then user address child details.
Similarly if I call the address uh child from child I am doing a get call.
Do I get a parent now?
First I get a child.
And now here, if you see that it found that hey I have a child or parent reference backtrack also so
it will make uh it will able to properly get its detail also.
But only one time.
No infinite recursion.
Why?
Because of this unique value.
Now, Jackson knows that this one is already passed one time, so I don't have to go.
Keep on going doing that.
So stop the recursion.
Something like that.
Okay, so you got it right.
How this bidirectional is handled in 1 to 1 bidirectional using map by.
Okay.
And whenever you are making a query it's making a query by left join select query and left join on this
ID and this address ID here.
Okay so in the next part we will see one to many many to one and many to many.
And in the last part we will see custom queries, criteria queries and pagination and sorting.
After that our JPA would be totally completed.
Okay guys, if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further by.

--- Spring boot: JPA  | OneToMany, ManyToOne and ManyToMany ---

Guys, she said.
Welcome to concept encoding.
Uh, so in today's video, we will be covering the remaining mappings, which are left like one to many,
many to one and many to many.
But if you have already seen the previous video where we were discussed about 1 to 1 unidirectional
and bidirectional, then this video would be just a piece of cake.
Uh, like nothing else.
Like so very, very easy to understand.
That's what I'm trying to say.
So let's start without wasting any time.
Like one to many.
Unidirectional.
You already know reference exists only in one direction.
Okay.
And one to many.
One entity associated with multiple records in another entity.
One to many, like user can have many orders.
One user many orders.
Okay.
So now let's say that if you remember, if you recall 1 to 1 okay, let's say you have a user and address.
Okay.
So here you are storing the foreign key.
Remember like you are storing the foreign key of this ID user ID.
Now here in one to many.
You have a user.
Now let's say you have an order.
Let's say this is user one.
User one have let's say order one, order two, order three.
Now I want to store the reference how you would store it before understanding it.
Just think logically like how we will store it.
So is it possible.
And I am talking about unidirectional.
All right.
So only one way we have a reference.
So can we store in the user like you one order one.
Because here you have only one row for the user.
Next is user two.
then you have user three.
So how you will store it in one.
You have only one row for user.
So we we can't store here right.
Because there can be many orders.
We can't have one order right.
So one way is we have a new table where we store that.
Hey this is user one, order one, user one, order two.
User one, order three.
Like this okay.
And what is the other way?
Other way is that here in this order table itself I have one more column.
Here we have user one.
This order two also belongs to user one.
Order three also belongs to user one.
So these are the two ways.
So what is the default way in this way.
So this is the default way.
It creates a new table.
And if you want if you don't want to create a new table.
And if you want this behavior like in the order table in the child one itself.
We want a foreign key of the parent.
Then we have to specifically tell into the join column.
Okay.
We'll see.
So this is what I told here that it creates a new table by default generally.
And you know that one to many.
In the previous video I told you by default it's a lazy loading.
And I have already explained what is eager loading and lazy loading.
So just see this example.
Now I have created one entity user details.
This is all we have seen.
The user has let's say user id which I calling id name phone.
Now in one to many.
I have also have order details.
I have it stable.
This order has let's say order ID which I'm calling ID only and let's say product name.
That's all.
And it's getter and setter.
Now in one to many one user can have many order rights.
So I have created a list of orders inside this user details.
And now I have put one to many annotation here.
Okay, now I am telling JPA that it has one to many relationship means we have to handle the foreign
key.
But how?
So here by default what it will do.
I told you what is the behavior?
It will create a new table.
Okay.
And I also told you about the cascade type.
What would happen with the cascade type okay.
Cascade type.
Merge insert right.
Similarly all means whenever you will insert a user detail order, detail would also get inserted.
If you delete the user detail parent, the child will also get deleted.
So now here if you see what is happening, how is your user table gonna look like It has ID name and
phone, ID name and phone.
How is your order detail gonna look like?
ID and product name, ID and product name, but where this one to many is going to show default is it
should create a new table.
So here if you see that it created a new table user detail order detail it by default it created okay.
And here if you see that this is the IDs it created by default.
So this is the ID and this is the id okay.
But what if you don't want to create a new table.
Because in one to many relationship I feel that this is the better way.
Like one user, let's say if user one have multiple orders, then the optimized way is that you have
multiple order one, order one, order two, order three here only we can have like it belongs to user
one.
This is belongs to user one.
This belongs to user one.
This is a foreign key of here.
So this is the foreign key.
So how to achieve this behavior instead of creating a new table.
So nothing much we have to just use at the rate join column.
So in 1 to 1 if you remember this we uses to provide a name to the what name we want to give to a foreign
key right here in one.
To many, this also been used to tell JPA that we don't want to store, or we don't want to create a
new table.
Instead, manage the foreign key into the child table itself.
Okay, so here, now here, if you see everything same, same everything, what I'm done is same.
Only thing is this is added newly added join column.
Okay.
Understand like who is storing a foreign key?
Then only it would be better clear.
So here you have a user.
You have a order.
So let's say order one.
Order two.
Here you gonna have a user one correct.
So this one join column name.
What is the name I'm giving user ID foreign key because this is the user ID foreign key okay.
Because this is the ID which going to store.
And what is the reference column.
Name this over this table user table ID.
What is the id I'm calling user id okay.
So this is the id okay.
So if you are clear that where the foreign key is going to be created in 1 to 1, it is used to create
here itself inside a parent, but in one to many, you know that parent can't hold it because one to
many one row can't.
You can't have like zero order one, order 2 in 1.
So it has to create a new table.
But we don't want a new table to create it.
That's why we are using a join column which enforce JPA to add it into the child itself.
And we tell that, hey, this is the name of the column we wanted for the foreign key, and it is referenced
to this column ID.
Okay.
So now how it's going to look like in the user detail what you're gonna see ID name phone, ID name
phone and in the order detail you will have ID product name and also this foreign key okay.
And this foreign key is the name user underscore id underscore f k is the name.
What we give.
And this is tied up with this user ID.
Reference id is the user id we give okay.
Now if we do a first insert call now.
Now I am calling user.
I am trying to do an insert.
So user has name, phone and a list of orders.
It has a list of orders right.
So I'm providing an orders.
I am giving two ice cream and cold drink.
So if you see my order entity one is ID which is auto generated.
Another is only product name.
So I'm giving like since it's a list, I am giving an array.
And inside that I am creating two objects.
One is ice cream, one is cold drink.
Once you hit it.
So here if you see data is inserted and it even so it created a user and it now you got a user ID and
even it created an order two orders and also created an order ID is also for them.
So here if you see user is created and this two order is created, one is ice cream, one is cold ring.
And here if you see the foreign key is updated properly one so it's parent is one.
So one to many okay.
Depending so see in one to many use case my recommendation would be this one.
Instead of creating a new table okay.
Generally new table we create in many to many scenario only okay in one.
If you have a use case in one to many it's better you could add it here itself.
Otherwise you have to maintain one more table and maintaining one more table you like.
It has its own, uh, advantage disadvantage.
But I would say that in one to many use case, generally this is you can say that the better readable
and faster way of accessing the data.
Okay.
Now if I want to do Get call now I want to do get call off it.
So what would happen.
So here if you see this is just a controller, I have added uh so that you can easily understand it
better I think in 1 to 1.
Uh, I have already explained this like dtos and all.
So here, if you see one to many, I already told you, right?
By default is lazy.
Okay, so this is the get call.
So now here, if you see first I am doing find by ID whatever the id, I am fetching it.
My expectation is since I am doing user controller, user has let's say three childs order one, order
two, order three.
So here I am first fetching the user so it will only fetch user, not orders at.
At this point of time only user is fetch, not order.
Then I am saying that going to map user to user DTO.
So now I am going to construct the DTO.
So now here I am constructing the DTO.
So in the DTO construction I am putting ID name phone.
Now here I am printing one message going to query order table here.
Now you know that in the lazy whenever we are going to access it like get me the order detail, then
it will hit a one more select query, one more select query on order table and then it will fetch the
order details.
So we can see the output.
I did one get call.
So here I am doing one get call.
I've got the data.
But here if you see first it make a Select query on only from user table.
So it first fetch only user data.
Then it printed this.
Going to map user detail to user DTO.
Then internally here while doing a mapping it is first printing going to query order table here.
Now going to query order detail.
Now when I specifically did get me the order detail.
Now at this point of time it will hit an order and it fetch the data and return.
So you can if you remember, if you haven't watched the previous video, you might be thinking hey,
why I am creating dto it just to showcase you how lazy working because if I am just returning it from
here, right?
Uh, from this itself, I will return, let's say return output here itself.
Okay, now what would happen is you will still get the same output.
You will get the order itself.
But there you get confused that hey, it's a lazy.
Then why this order get comes because because of serialization.
Okay.
When you do a, uh, Jason, uh, when in the response, we return a JSON, right?
So our Jackson internally call get API.
So even though we are not calling Jackson internally, call the get right here we have the getters and
setters right getters and setters.
So here internally it calls get order details.
So internally Jackson invokes it.
So to avoid the confusion to show that how lazy working at what exactly time the order is getting fetched
when specifically we want maybe your scenario you don't want to return the order details, then you
don't have to do this and no order query would be hit.
Okay, eager, fetch.
You already know that if you want eagerly you can simply put fetch type eager and simply return find
by ID.
You don't have to do dto like it will always return full itself.
And in the query itself you can double verify.
Now the select query is like from user table.
Now join with the order table.
Earlier it was only from user table in the lazy one.
Okay.
And the casket type I have already explained you in the previous video with the example that persist
merge removal all works in the same scenario, right?
So now here, whatever the casket type we are using right?
Casket type all.
So means when you create a new user, if there are an order it will also get created.
If you use remove you remove the user, then all its associated order will also get removed.
If you update it, if there is an associated order and you are trying to update it, that will also
get updated.
It.
And if you want all this feature, you can use all.
Okay, so this one I have also explained you in the previous one.
Now there is this is one very interesting uh, is something called orphan removal.
Now with one to many there is one question comes that okay this is my user.
User one.
This user has.
Order one.
Order two.
Order three.
Order four.
User one.
Okay.
Now it is possible that in future I am updating that user one has only order one, order two and order
three.
I am removing the order four from the collection here.
If you see in the user.
In the user.
You are maintaining a list, right?
List of order details.
Where is it?
You are maintaining a list inside a user.
You are maintaining a list.
What if you update this list and instead of four orders you are just having now one order here instead
of four four orders, you updated the collection and now you have only three orders and now you are
calling save.
You are not calling delete, you are just calling save again.
Okay, maybe you can say that update you are calling update.
So if you are not doing orphan removal what would happen is this will change to null.
But this will not delete.
So this will become orphan.
Now earlier user one has all four orders.
Later on you updated only that.
Okay.
Order one.
Order two, order three is there in the collection.
Order four.
You have removed from the collection in the Java code and you call save again internally.
Save?
See that a ID is already there.
So internally try to update it.
So for order four it will change it to null.
It will remove it because now it is not there in the collection.
But this would be known as orphan.
This would be known as now orphan because it doesn't have any parent.
And this is generally we are calling as a child table.
So that's why we call orphan removal any orphan child you have remove it okay.
So that's where automatically removes child entry when child removed from the parent collection okay.
So just see this example.
This is just a controller I'm just created this a testing even though it's a get.
Don't worry about it.
This is just for the testing the orphan.
So I have created first insert user.
So we will create two orders.
User order one.
Order two.
Okay.
After that I will invoke this API.
And in that one I will first fetch the data user details.
And it is uh, it will get all the data.
Right now I am doing get order details right.
So all this user one both the orders will come and I am removing the zeroth index.
I am removing this and I am again saving it.
Remember I am not deleting it, I'm just saving.
It means I am updating it because it has the id.
So internally it will go for the an update.
So what would happen?
Let's see that.
First I am inserting it.
So here this is the post API I am inserting.
One user has two orders ice cream and cold drink.
So now in the user detail one user is created and two orders is created.
Okay.
Both has the foreign key properly set.
Now I am testing orphan removal.
So currently orphan removal by default is false.
Only by default is false.
Okay.
So means we are testing an existing behavior.
Till now.
What we are doing now I am calling the other API this API which I am calling you.
So what it will do, it will first fetch it, remove one order and then save it.
So means order.
One is now orphan.
So now here.
If you see that order one is not coming into the response.
User detail has one user order.
Detail still has two.
But here if you see one is considered as null.
Now zeroth one because I am removing it, I am removing the zero.
So I am remove the one from the collection.
So this one got updated to null.
So now this has become orphan.
It doesn't have any parent.
Okay.
So now so here if you see right you can check the console how it works.
So it first did a select okay since it's a lazy one.
So it didn't it only hit user table.
Then after that I did this get order details right.
So at this point of time it hit the order table.
So from there I removed one zeroth index order I removed from the collection and I call save.
Internally it will call update only.
So here it is calling Update and Order detail.
This one is setting null.
One is setting null because I have removed it from the collection.
Now, if I want orphan removal functionality, then what we can do is in one to many cascade type all,
there is one more field like orphan removal equals to true so we can set it.
So what would happen now the same API we are hitting again the same output.
But if you see the DB now user detail.
Yes.
Order detail.
Now only one the orphan which was an ice cream in that scenario got removed deleted.
So now here if you see the query also you will see one delete query also.
Okay so orphan removal true equals to.
We are telling JPA that hey if you are seeing that we are removing an entity.
So you remember right persistence context everything is in memory like so user has.
Order one.
Order two.
Okay.
Everything is in memory.
Now you are removing order one from the collection.
So persistence, context.
Everything has known about it.
And now when you're calling JPA update, it knows that this order has been removed from the user collection.
So first it update it to null, first it update it to null, and then later on it deleted it.
So it's a two step process.
But that JPA will take care of removing the orphan child.
So if anybody in interview asks you about this like, um, what are the challenge comes in one to many.
Uh, it's orphan removal.
This is how we can handle it.
And sometime it also asks that how it is different from cascade delete and orphan removal.
Cascade delete and orphan removal C.
Both are different concept in Cascade delete means you are so user has two childs order one order two.
In cascade delete means you are deleting the parent and cascade.
It will delete the child.
Also that what cascade delete is okay if you deleting the parent child will also get deleted.
Orphan removal is you are removing a child.
You are removing the child from the collection, not from the DB.
You are not deleting the child from the DB you're removing from the collection only.
Okay, then we have to tell JPA that remove it from the DB also.
That's what orphan removal is.
Okay and orphan.
You already know that without parent in this scenario.
Your child table child row doesn't have any foreign key which points to the parent.
Okay, I hope this is clear.
Uh, if this is clear, then we can move to bidirectional.
That is again a very, very simple but again an important concept.
One to many bidirectional.
If you are clear with the 1 to 1 bidirectional, then it would be less confusing for you here.
But before I proceed further, I will tell you that there are 3 or 4 things.
Parent child.
Then another is your owing and inverse side.
Owing side.
Inverse side.
Don't get confused that hey parent is always the owing side.
Child is always the inverse side.
No, you know that parent and child concept, right?
Like depends in your business, which is considered as a parent and which is considered as a child like
parent.
If parent exists, then only child can exist.
Okay.
If child existence is dependent upon parent.
So parent child relationship.
We can determine from the situation to situation because we can easily identify that yes, child dependency
is on parent.
If parent goes, child also goes.
But what is owing side and inverse side don't get confused with that.
Owing is always parent.
Inverse is also child no owing means those which side contains the foreign key.
Which side contains the foreign key.
Inverse is like the which side do not contains the foreign key.
Simple.
Easy to remember.
So which side is holds the foreign key relationship in a table?
Inverse side is no foreign key is created in the table.
In 1 to 1 we have a parent table.
We have a child table in 1 to 1 bidirectional.
You know that foreign key is created here in the parent key 1 to 1.
So this is your parent row.
This is your address let's say user address.
So address ID.
So here inside this parent is now the owing side.
But now in one to many you have a user.
You have an order.
Okay.
User one.
User two here you have order one.
Order two belongs to user one.
Order three belongs to user two.
So this is your foreign key now here.
So who is the winning side?
This one is the winning side.
Now your child is now your owing side.
And this is the inverse side doesn't hold the primary foreign key.
Okay.
So always easy to remember which one is owing side and which one is reverse side.
So in one to many bidirectional.
So here if you see in the owing side we always write at the right joint column.
Okay.
Because in unidirectional you know that only one side we keep it.
Okay.
But now in the owing are bidirectional.
We have two side inverse side and owing side.
So generally joint column is put into the owing side which holds the primary key.
Okay.
So now in the order details user has many orders.
Order one.
Order two.
Order three.
So now here.
If you see that order details, you have an ID, product name and one user also one.
Remember, one more thing.
Bidirectional doesn't change your DB structure like a unidirectional.
In a unidirectional and bidirectional, the table structure would remain the same.
You have a user, you have an order.
You have a user ID here, you have an order ID, here you have a product.
And here only also you have one user foreign key like in unidirectional.
Same here.
But here what happen is here in the bidirectional you have reference from the both side.
One is like maintained into the table and another is on the Java object side itself.
So now here if you see which one is your owing side?
Owing side is the one which holds the foreign key.
Foreign key is holds by your child.
Table.
Order.
Okay.
We are saying that order is my child table.
So now here I have id, I have product.
Now I am creating a user details user okay.
Because one order can have only one user okay.
One order can have only one user.
This way.
So that's why.
So what is the foreign key name.
Join key column user id owing fk.
This is the name I want to give.
And what is the column it point to user id this one in the user table.
User id this is pointing to this id okay.
And this is just a getter setter nothing much.
And here in the inverse side.
Now your inverse side is your currently here parent which do not hold the foreign key.
So here you have an ID name phone.
And here I have a list of orders.
List of orders.
And now since it inverse side.
So that's why I am using one to many here map by user detail.
So notice one more thing here.
Parent to child.
Here is one to many.
One user has many child and they're many to one.
Okay, many orders can have only one parent.
Okay so that's why many to one annotation is used here.
Okay.
So at the inverse side I am using map by user details.
So this will tell JPA that this side is not handling the foreign key.
This is just like a reference in the Java code.
In the Java code.
You can access the order details here from this side also and from there user details.
This side also.
But this is the one owing side where we have a join column.
This is the one which actually responsible for creating a foreign key in the table okay.
And this is just a map by user details that this is just a reference to this one.
And this is all our getter setter okay.
So first thing is clear.
Which one is your owing side.
Which one is your invoice side at the owing side okay.
So here in this case in one to many your child is your owing side which holds the foreign key.
So that's why you put many to one annotation.
First part.
Second part is you use the join column at the owing side and you can give proper.
What is the name you wanted and the respective column in the parent which is pointing to?
Okay.
And in the corresponding parent table which is do not hold the foreign key.
So it's an inverse side.
And there we have to use one to many.
And we have to give just it's a map by.
Okay.
And it is mapping to this one.
Okay.
So means JPA.
It will tell JPA that we don't have to create any foreign key column here, just a map by in Java code
itself it would be used okay.
It is not maintaining any foreign key.
So first is clear.
Second is I already told you in the previous video JSON identity info like when in case of bidirectional
during serialization recursion issue can come.
So there are many scenarios you can use JSON ignore.
Right.
And there are other ways.
So identity info we can use it like this.
Okay.
So this is the second way this we have already discussed in the previous video why we needed it to stop
the recursion, because during serialization user now has reference to order.
Order now has reference to user.
So it should not go continuously.
And now here if you see the third last scenario here is during set orders.
We are setting this here.
So what we are actually doing here.
So now here if you see see this.
With this example I am creating a user, I am creating a user and name phone number.
And this user has two orders ice cream and cold drink placing two order.
You know that cascade type is all so means child table will also get created.
Okay, so user would be created and child would be created.
Now here if you see from the user we are creating a user.
Right.
So child table how it will create it will call set order internally.
Right now if we just call set order here.
If you do this only.
This two things would come null.
Why.
Because in the bidirectional this is your inverse side.
Here we are telling JPA that this is just a map by.
This is not maintaining any foreign key relationship you don't have to worry about at this class.
So during when you are creating an order from this two rows, it will create set orders.
What should be the value which going inside this it doesn't know it won't automatically JPA would add
because JPA is not maintaining this as like a maintaining a foreign key.
Okay.
Only this one owing one many to one where we have put a join column.
It is maintaining that here this is mapped by which is inverse.
So here whatever the order we have order details.
So what I'm doing is I'm iterating over an order and I'm putting user details this.
So I'm inserting the reference of this user details that whatever the user I am creating, whatever
the order you are creating, this order has user details.
This one, this user.
And that's where this one is coming here at both side okay.
That's why this one is coming at both side.
So if you understand owing and inverse then this things understanding this thing would be very easy
for you.
That why we are doing what.
Okay.
When we have to where where we have to use join column.
Okay.
Uh in one to Two.
In a unidirectional.
It's very easy.
We have to use at one side only.
Okay.
But in bidirectional it becomes confusing where we have to use.
So always use it at the owing side.
Other.
At the map you have to take care of the like.
Any mapping you have to do.
You have to do in 1 to 1 bidirectional.
We are not doing this because our parent has owing the foreign key, right?
So JPA will take care of it.
So even though we are putting address right, just setting an address, it will take care of inserting
the address ID properly foreign key properly.
Because this is our primary itself.
Parent table itself is your owing side.
So if you are creating a user that table itself has a foreign key.
So JPA will manage it.
But here in this one to many scenario this is inverse side now.
So JPA will not take care of filling up the order ID, a foreign key, filling up the foreign key here
so we have to maintain it.
Okay.
Similarly you can call user join.
It will properly come and no recursion problem will come.
Also because recursion problem we have solved through this JSON identity info.
Now also you can use JSON ignore if you want.
Generally if you ask my preference.
Also let's say user has order, order has user.
So generally at one side you can always put like JSON ignore.
Generally in the child side we can always put JSON ignore.
From parent side we can have an order from child side we can put JSON ignore.
We don't want uh again the parent information parent information we have already taken out.
But it depends upon your business logic how you are accessing generally from parent.
We access the child detail.
That's why we don't want parent details again.
And that's why we put JSON ignore in the child one.
1 to 1.
Many to one.
Unidirectional.
Before I go to many to one unidirectional.
Many to one bidirectional.
Is same as what we did just now.
One to many bidirectional, right?
It is also equivalent to many to one bidirectional.
See, whenever we are talking about one to many, we are saying that parent to child.
And when we are talking about many to one, generally depending upon the concept, generally we are
talking about child to parent.
Okay.
So here in this case bidirectional child to parent.
Bidirectional.
In this case let's say user order scenario.
Now if I have to use many to one I.
This is my many I am talking hey many order has one user, many order has one user.
Now I have changed the way of talking or my perceptive now in one to many I was talking from parent
to child, now in many to one.
Generally it goes in a reverse direction like many orders.
One user but still user is my driving.
Uh, like user is my driving one like it is the considered as a parent so many to one bidirectional
is exactly same as generally one to many bidirectional same piece of code would be written because here
if you see whichever is the owing party, that would have many to one here annotation and the inverse
side will have one to many.
Okay.
so only little slightly difference come in many to one unidirectional.
That is also very very similar to your one to many.
Okay.
So now here if you see that we'll see this with an example.
You will get to know easily.
Okay I will first tell you about this table entity.
Yeah.
So earlier we were talking about one user can have many order order one order two one to many.
Now we are talking about multiple orders.
Can belongs to one user many to one.
It's the same thing right?
Just way of seeing the problem is different.
Now if you see this user details I am not putting anything.
I have user ID name phone now here.
If you see the parent doesn't know about child in one to many Any parent know about the child?
Because here we have a list of orders.
Now in this many to one, we are talking from the child perspective.
So here if you see parent doesn't know about what is the like how many childs are there user ID name
phone that's all.
But in the order details it know about a parent.
And here we have put many to one cascade type all join column.
We can say that this is the you know that table wise also exactly same child table only will contain
the foreign key order details only contain the foreign key.
And this foreign key belongs to the ID okay.
Exactly same as one to many.
Only thing that they are in one to many.
Your parent has about knowledge of the child.
List of order.
And here we are using one to many now in many to one.
Your parent doesn't know about your child, your child knows about your parent.
Aaron and we are using many to one annotation here, but DB schema wise exactly same.
And bidirectional is exactly same as one to many bidirectional.
Okay.
So you can try it out.
Exactly.
It's just same.
It just way of talking like um one to many many to one.
It's just like from parent to child, child to parent, that's all.
And then we have many to many unidirectional.
So now here in this case you need to understand many to many.
There is no parent child concept okay.
Anybody based upon your business can be treated as a parent, can be treated as a child.
Similarly can be treated as an owing.
Can be treated as an inverse.
Both can be owing.
Both can be inverse.
Like you can take any one of them as an owing side, any one of them as an inverse side.
Because many to many.
reference.
And it's a unidirectional means one way only.
Now see that.
Let's say you have product one.
Product two.
Okay.
One are so many to many.
So here, if you see that order one, order two, order one can also have product one and product two.
Order two can also have product one and product two okay.
So now here if you see product one is associated with order one and product one is associated with order
two.
Similarly order one is associated with product one and product two.
So we have many to many relationship here.
No one is dependent on anybody.
So order details.
And here I am creating one more entity product details in order.
I have nothing but an order number which is auto generated.
And since this is we are talking about unidirectional means, I want to reference from one side itself.
So I want from order two product like I want to in the code wise, I want to read from DB schema wise
unidirectional, bidirectional.
You know that.
Exactly same.
No difference.
Only thing is Java code how you can reference like how you can access it.
So in unidirectional I want let's say I'm putting inside an order.
From order I can reach all product one, product two.
So that's why I put list of product details means order is knowing about all the products.
And inside a product you have a product ID, what is the name?
What is the price?
But you can only move in one direction from order to product like here in in one direction only.
Okay.
So how you can, you know.
And one more thing.
You know that you have an order table.
You have, let's say order one, order two.
You have a product table, you have a product one, product two.
Now you have to associated it with order.
One is associated with product one, product two how you can store it and can you store it here.
Can you store it in the child table?
There is no child parent relationship.
So in many to many always we create a new table.
Order one product one.
Order one, product two, order two, product one, order two, product two, or product three.
So now this is how many to many in a new table we create.
So that's why there is something called list of products.
Because one order can be associated with many products.
So now I am putting at the rate many to many relationship.
Now we are telling to the JPA that it's a many to many.
And I'm since it has to create a new table so we can tell this at the join table.
What is the table name I want to create?
I want to create order underscore product.
This is the name I want to give order underscore product.
And this foreign key right.
One foreign key in order one foreign key in product.
So that's why join column you can make anybody as uh owing and anybody has inverse I'm telling you.
So join column one I am killing order ID inverse join column is your product ID this one okay.
So two columns it will create into this new table like this.
And this is just a getter setter.
So now here if you see your order details is just your order number which is auto generated.
Your product detail is product ID, name, price, product ID, name, price.
And now because of this many to many mapping a new table order underscore product would be created which
has two columns.
One is order ID and one is product ID, order ID and product ID.
Okay, we can test it like so.
Here I have simply created a Rest controller product controller okay.
And I have created one order controller.
So very very simple.
So here if you see just see what I am doing here I will one by one I will tell you let's say step one
create a product.
So I am hitting a product API API slash product, slash API slash product.
So this is the insert product Method is getting invoked.
Product has, uh, name and price, right?
So I am first creating one product.
And then I'm creating second product called ring.
So two product I am creating.
So product is created I got an ID so in the DB.
Now here if you see that two products are now there in my schema in the DB.
Currently no order is there.
So first step I did is created two products.
Now I am creating an order.
Now here if you see insert order when I'm creating an order.
Now let's say that order one.
So product one and product two I already have in a DB.
Okay.
Now this order one I am saying that hey associate this order with this product.
Product one and product two let's say I have more product p3 p4.
But in order one I want to associate it with only P1 and P2.
So means I'm passing the ID, so first it will fetch product IDs.
Once it will fetch the product ID it will add it to the orders, set product details.
And then I am saving the order.
Okay.
So here in my product, uh, here in my order detail, I have a list of product details.
Okay.
So that's where I am setting it.
Like now if you see it would become more clear with this.
Now I am creating an order.
So this is the first order API I'm creating.
So order has only order number which is auto generated right?
This is auto generated.
Rest is like the list of product list of product.
So I am passing a list of product.
Now here I have already created two products.
One is ice cream which has id one and another ID two is cold ring.
rain.
So I'm just passing that.
Hey, associated this order with this product id product id one and here product ID two.
So what my code will do from this order which request is coming.
It will take out the ID and it will search.
So first ID one I am sending right this ID one.
This ID one.
So for this ID one it will first go.
And from the DB it take out its details.
Then its a stream right.
Then it goes second and then it will take out its detail and it will collect into this list.
Okay now I have the complete list of this product ID one.
And similarly product two which is for cold ring and its price.
And here we have ice cream and its price 100.
Now I am inserting into my order details and I am saving it now.
Okay, so now what is the expectation here?
Here if you see the response, my order is created one and it is associated with the existing product
itself.
So currently I have achieved this one order one already I have product one.
Product two.
It is associated with this now.
Now I am creating another order okay.
So orders are order number is auto generated.
So on successful order number two would be created.
But I am associating it with product only product ID two.
So what would happen with the code is that it will take out a product ID.
It will find.
So it will get this detail product two in the list and save it okay.
So what it will do is.
It will return like this.
Now if you see the DB order detailed two orders created product detail only two product which we initially
created and in the order product which is a new table there I have like with one order product one,
one order product two, and with the second order only product two is associated.
Okay.
And here if you see we are inserting an order now here if you see uh where it goes entity.
Yeah.
This order we are this is maintaining the like here we have a join table many to many relationship okay.
So means JPA knows that it has to fill up this IDs foreign key and product ID.
So that's where we are not worry about our code itself that okay, update order ID and product ID properly
okay.
Because in this class itself it will create it will create a new table.
It has this two fields and JPA is maintaining it.
It is not mapped by.
So we don't have to worry about that properly.
Order ID product product ID is set.
JPA will take care of it if it is a mapped by.
Let's say that if it is a mapped by then we have to set.
Then JPA will not take care of setting the order ID product id okay, since this is foreign key is properly
maintaining by JPA, we don't have to worry about.
So this getter setter itself we can rely easily.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that we are achieving many to many relationship properly.
And now in the bidirectional, you know that DB structure is going to be the same.
No difference.
Only thing differ is now we have a reference from both side.
We have a user or we have an order and we have a product.
Okay.
We can go from order to product from product to order.
But now here in this scenario many to many.
Can you tell me which one is owing and which one is inverse?
First of all, there is no child and parent concept in many to many of product is not dependent on order.
Order is not dependent on product.
First of all, okay, both are independent.
If one goes down or one goes deleted, other one not get deleted, right?
And who can keep the foreign key.
So here if you see nobody here, we create a new table.
Where is this new table?
Here we create a new table.
Okay.
Neither product is keeping the foreign key.
Neither order is creating a foreign key.
So we can give ownership of anybody.
We can make anyone as annoying and another one as an inverse.
So let's say that I am keeping the order as an owing itself.
So there I am putting like this like order has a list of product.
So I am putting exactly the same.
Many to many new table created.
And this is the two IDs.
It has to create exactly same and product details.
Now here if you see this three table now it's a inverse also.
Right.
So list of orders also.
But I want to.
created inverse map by.
So I have created many to many here also map by this product details this one okay DB schema wise no
difference.
Exactly.
Same only thing is like uh in the Java code how you can reference it, which one you want to keep as
an owing, which one you want to keep as an inverse.
Owing generally contains the foreign key.
Okay.
So here nobody contains the foreign key.
New table is created.
So it's just like you want to give responsibility to order detail entity to create a new table or product
to create a new table.
Here I am creating an order, uh, responsibility to create a new table.
That's all.
Nothing much.
And whenever you will create an order, okay.
It will take care automatically update product ID and order ID associated properly.
But now here, if you say this is map by okay, it is also a list of orders.
So now let's say if you are creating a product and product also has list of order one.
Order two like this inverse you are doing.
Will it properly create or fill up this table?
Will it properly fill up this table?
No it will not.
It will create product.
It will create order.
But will it take care of this foreign key properly?
Update.
No, you have to take care of it.
Filling this table because it's a map like it's only Java reference.
JPA is not managing the DB here, here at the root join.
And this is not mapped by.
So JPA takes care of responsibility.
When you go for order and from order you are creating products properly ID would be created, foreign
key would be updated but vice versa.
Now here product you are have product one, let's say ice cream and you are getting the hey associated
with two orders.
It will not update the foreign key table properly because it's just a map.
So you have to write your properly in the setter code that update the foreign key also.
Okay, so based upon your business logic, how generally operation comes like product is always there
product one, product two and orders now coming in your system.
Okay.
So it's better that you make it an owing side.
So always based upon your business logic depends like which one is going to be the owing.
Which one is going to be the inverse.
If you make opposite you blindly choose anyone as an owing and anyone as has an inverse, then you have
to take care of responsibility of updating the foreign key properly.
That's the only thing you have to consider in the bidirectional.
Okay, with that being said, all the mappings are completed, but do practice it out.
It's all easy, but if you practice it with your hand, you will get proper clarify like okay, to whom
we are saying owing to him, we are saying inverse.
Why one to many, many to one is so related to each other?
It's just about the concept.
When we are saying one to many parent to child, many to one, sometime child to parent.
It's just a way of saying okay.
So it creates a lot of confusion, but they are very tightly related to each other.
Okay guys.
So last topic left in JPA which is your custom queries right.
And criteria queries we will cover that soon also.
And after that we will start with spring security.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: JPA  | JPQL, Derived Query, N+1 Problem, Joins, Pagination ---

Hey guys, welcome to Concept Encoding.
And let's start without wasting any time in our new Spring Boot video.
So till now in JPA, we have already seen that how we are creating our repository interface, right?
And generally how we are invoking it from the service class.
Right.
So this save find by id.
These methods are already present into the spring framework.
Right JPA framework.
And if you see our interface we haven't defined any method.
But these implementation is already present.
But there might be a requirement where we have to have write our own query, right.
Custom query.
Or you can say that these methods are not sufficient for you.
Okay.
So you have a different or more complex query than just say find by ID.
So what to do in that case.
So today we will go one by one all such methods.
The first is derived query.
So what does it do.
It will automatically generate queries from the method.
Okay.
So we just write method JPA, parse that method and create a query out of it.
Need to follow a specific naming conventions.
Why?
Because see from method a query is generated and JPA converts it, right?
So JPA follows a proper naming convention so that it can parse the method.
So derive query used for get remove operation but not for insert and update because for insert and update
already a method is present here.
Save.
You can use save to insert also to update.
Also we have already seen that in the past.
okay.
But derive query.
We can use it get remove operation and you will get to know soon.
Why only this.
So here if you see there is a class part three dot Java into an JPA framework.
If you search this class you will see a prefix or you rejects.
So this is a regex.
So this rejects.
So here if you see first is query pattern like this then is count pattern this.
Okay.
So all this get uh replaced here.
These are just a placeholder.
So ultimately this is gonna be your regex.
So here if you see that our method when we are saying that it has to follow a naming convention.
So this is it should follow this regex.
Then only your JPA would be able to convert from method to query.
So your method should start with either find or read.
Get.
Query.
Search.
Stream.
Count.
Exit.
Delete.
Remove.
Okay, so either one of them.
Method name should start with either one of these value.
Okay then the second part comes.
The second part says that uppercase letter like a b, c.
Anything you can use.
Like for example I have used let's say find find.
Let's say I am using find expense right.
Anything starting with uppercase letter okay.
So uppercase letter anything.
So here if you see uppercase letter then I have put dot star question mark zero or more characters.
So I have put expense right.
So zero or more characters I have put.
After that you have something called by okay.
So this is at the end of your method.
So find expense by now after this, what you have to give is the field name, the field name of your
entity.
Okay.
So it will automatically create a query out of it.
It can parse it.
So here if you see just see an example in this repository.
Now I am writing one method find.
Okay so this first one I am choosing here from the find then capital okay.
Then I'm uppercase letter I am using capital U, then SCR anything like I want to give anything.
So here it's like zero or more characters right.
So I'm just using find user details.
Then by find user details by now here if you see this thing, this thing ultimately after by Whatever
you will write, it will like bear claws.
Okay, so this should be your entity field name.
So this is my entity user details.
Inside that field name is name okay.
So it just follows like a CamelCase letter.
So uh, n is capital.
So name okay.
And here in the parameter we have like what the name it should come.
So it will automatically generate a query like this.
Select all the data from the user table.
User details table from this user details where username equals to this.
So this question mark will get replaced with this.
But now here if you see that we haven't wrote any Jpql or SQL query, we haven't written any query.
We just written method.
But JPA internally parse it into a query.
That's why this is known as derived query.
Okay.
From method query is generated.
Okay.
That is done by JPA not by us.
And this method should follow a naming convention like this.
So let's say different use cases so that you can understand more better about this derive query.
So now here see this method name which I have written here.
So find okay user details.
By now I am using name and phone.
So if you open that part three dot Java you will see all this parsing logic where like and or wherever
it is present there itself.
So now here after by you know that it would be a where clause where then we have a name.
So this is all the fields now.
Okay.
So where name equals to this and your and your phone equals to replace with this.
So that query would be generated so and okay.
Similarly or also we can use.
So now here you see what I am using by name and phone or user ID.
So the similarly it will get translated to query name and phone or user ID.
Okay.
Then we have something called comparison.
So the query can be so many things right.
So see if you open the part dot Java class there is an enum list.
So because in the query we can have between is not null is null less than less than equals to greater
than everything.
Right.
So that's where we have all this enum present which we can write into the method.
So if you want to use let's say between.
So either you can write between in the method or is between both are both will work.
Uh JPA would be able to catch both.
Okay.
So these are all the kind of different comparisons or uh, different enums which is also present.
So let's say that here I am using find user detail by name.
Okay I am putting is in okay.
After the field you can use anything.
It will just interpret like this from this name field okay.
Where name field.
What we wanted is is in okay.
So we are since we are using in.
That's why the parameter accept a list okay so username in and this whatever the list will go inside
this.
Okay.
Similarly you can use like also okay.
Like name like okay then whatever the name would be have let's say string name.
So the similarly query would be generated like this I hope this is clear.
Right.
So this is like JPA already has given us what else we can use in a method.
Since we generally do not aware of this, we find complicate to write a derived query.
Uh, but here JPA has given us everything like, uh, what should be the syntax we should follow?
And uh, like in query what all things we can use.
I am totally agree.
Also, you might be thinking like we it is difficult to write a complex queries.
Yes.
Derived query is generally for are not.
We can't write too complex queries right.
Join and all.
So it's just like.
If you don't have that much complex but little custom requirement.
But simpler queries.
Yeah we can go ahead with the derived query itself.
Okay.
So here I am using by name like and the name.
So now here if you see it got interpreted like this.
Similarly now see we are using delete method.
So now whenever we gonna use delete method.
So now we are updating the DB something.
So that's why we also have to use at the rate transactional on top of your method which you're gonna
write.
So delete I am using you know right.
We can start with delete right.
And uh by I want to delete by name.
And this is the name.
So here this query ultimately delete query would be generated like this.
Okay.
So it's going to delete by name.
So now let's say this you have let's say um name.
You want to delete a.
So if there are ten entries with the name A so that many times delete it will call.
Okay.
So all entries it will delete it.
Okay.
We can also look at the pagination and sorting and derived query which is also very important.
So JPA has two interfaces to support pagination and sorting.
One is Pageable.
This is one interface which through which we can do pagination.
Another is sort through which we can achieve sorting.
Okay so the Pageable Eligible interface.
Right through this, we can set two things page number and page size.
Okay.
You we all know pagination right.
So let's say you have ten records.
You have ten records.
Uh, in the page page number start from 00123.
Like this goes and let's say the page size you have given like in one page number of records should
be let's say five.
So in the page zero you have five records.
Page one you have five records.
So total ten records.
So two pages are there okay.
Similarly we can use like this.
So whatever the derived method you are writing okay.
So I am using find I think now you can interpret right.
What what the query gonna be created.
Find.
So means it's a Select query.
This is optional user details by name starting with starting with right.
So it's like something like this.
This is the name you are going to use.
So this is your user name.
And here you can provide your Pageable object parameter.
See there is no such sequence that Pageable should become at last it should come at mid or it should
come as this one.
Uh, generally it JPA pass the method so it knows that pageable parameter, so it will treat it like
this.
So generally as a convention, I would say that always try to uh put Pageable parameter at the last
itself.
Okay.
So that it's always like a convention, but there are no such harsh and fast rule that pageable should
be at the last itself.
It can be in the Mid also, so JPA can interpret it properly.
So now here, if you see that in this, uh pageable parameter in the method derived method itself,
we can write it now in the service class when we are calling this method name, we have to pass this
Pageable.
Right.
So now here, if you see that this is our interface Pageable.
Now I am creating page requests dot on page number.
I want zeroth page.
And in the what should be the page size five.
Okay, so that I wanted page zero.
And in the one page the five entries can be present so that I wanted and I passed this.
Okay.
So if you have you already know that if you have seven entries 1234567.
So 12345, this will go into page zero.
And in the page one, six and seven would be there only two okay.
Because there are only seven entries only.
If you need more info about pages, whether it's a first page, whether it's a last page or if there
are more page, then we can use page as a return type.
So now here, if you see currently okay, from this one I am returning the list of user detail itself.
Okay.
But if I need more detail I would use page object right in the return type.
Okay.
So now this page how we can use.
Now here I am getting this.
When I call in the service class I got this return type.
Now page this one.
From there I can get more details.
So first I need to get the content.
So from this page I do get content.
I will get this list.
Whatever the output I am getting from the DB, the same object I can use it like hey, what are the
total number of pages is?
This is my first page is this is the last page is last right?
So you will get more info from.
If you required then you can return type uses page.
So this is just an example.
I have total six entries in the DB starting with all a okay, because my method is a start with and
I am passing a.
So my query would be like something like this.
Okay, and here I am returning zero and page five.
So 12345 till here I would get it six.
And this I would get into the next page.
If I do one five then I would get into this last one okay.
Okay.
So there is also one more thing like pagination with sorting.
Also it's possible.
So when we are creating a Pageable object right page request dot of the page number the page size.
Then there is also an interface.
I told you, right.
Sort interface we have.
So we can do sort by we can give properties.
We can give more than one properties.
I will tell you uh, but let's say that currently I want to sort by only one field.
That is name.
This is an entity.
Whatever the Java entity object which we have, it's a it's field name.
It's field name, not DB column anything entity Java entity field name okay.
So sort dot by and we have the property where we will provide the list of fields.
Currently I am giving only one field that is name.
And I want to sort in descending order.
And similarly the page I am passing into my method.
Okay.
And now here, if you see that I am trying to find page zero and the page size is five.
So here I am getting into the descending order because I have given the order sorting by descending.
We can only use sorting also we don't.
If you don't want pagination and only want to use sorting, then you don't.
You just need this sort, right?
You don't just need, uh, page pageable.
So that also is possible.
So here in the same method, it can also accept this sort interface.
And in the service class you just provide sort by the same thing, sort by whatever the field you want
to sort in descending order and you will get the output.
The sort by accept multiple fields.
See that when multiple fields are provided sorting applied in order.
Okay.
Let's say that I provided by name, comma phone.
So what would happen is let's say I have two entries a a or three entries a, a, and its phone number
is one, phone number is two, phone number is three.
So now here if you see that first and I want it like descending order.
Now here if you see that name is all three same.
So what it will do is after that it use the second field phone.
So now phone it will use it.
And now it will store it in a descending order.
So, so a phone is in three.
Phone two, phone one.
Now this would be the sorting.
So you got it.
So first is sort by the first field.
And if there are duplicate then second field is used and so on.
You can give multiple field like this sort by you can comma separated multiple fields.
You can give.
So it will first try to sort with this.
If there are duplicates then it will use second fields to sort it and like so on.
This is just an example I have tried to explain.
But there might be a question that hey, what if we need different sorting order for different fields?
It's possible right?
Uh, for name I want ascending for phone, I want descending.
But with this one sort by.
Since all the fields are in one and we are just either ascending or descending, it's not possible.
So there is another way we can do it.
Like similar way.
Sort by.
Now for each field.
For each field we have to provide an order sort order ascending the field name sort order descending
and the phone okay.
And the same sort interface we will give here.
that.
So with this for each field we can have different kind of sorting either ascending and descending.
Now I have already told you that if the queries are little complex, then using derived method, derived
query, whatever you can say, it's little bit tough.
You have to think a lot that okay fine, then I have used by then name, then greater than then like
how you will do that sometime it become more greater.
Okay, so it can't be handled by a derived query.
Then what next?
Then here we have something called j p q Java Persistence Query language similar to SQL but works on
entity object SQL.
Works on database, database or table name column name.
But here it works on Jpql works on entity object.
So in Java you have a class right?
Let's say user.
So it works on this.
Maybe this is correspond to a table user.
But understand that JPL understand this.
So whatever the name of the class is that whatever the fields names is it work on that one instead of
direct database.
And because of that it's database independent.
So today you have let's say MySQL.
Tomorrow you want to change it and you want to use Postgres.
It doesn't matter.
JP is JP is using the class.
Okay.
What beneath database you are using doesn't care.
So that's why it is known as database independent.
You can change database you want.
Your queries will remain the same because it is dependent on your entity.
Okay.
So the same thing.
It's work with the entity name and field not with table names.
So understand this one simple query of the gpcl.
It will give you a better clarity.
So in the same repository interface class, like whatever the name you want to give.
Now this name is not should be like find by.
Don't get confused that find by should be there.
You can use anything.
Right now we have to provide our query Jpql query.
So we have to use annotation at the query.
And inside this we have to give the Jpql the query.
So it is very very similar to SQL only very sorry very very similar to SQL select.
Instead of stress you just provide the object.
Or you can say that alias of your entity user detail is my uh, class right?
Entity class user details.
So I have aliases.
You right.
So the same you I am using here.
So it is equivalent to stress.
If you want a specific field you do you dot let's say name comma.
You dot phone like this like an object from instead of table name your entity class entity name.
Okay.
This is an alias.
Where?
Now this is your field name.
You dot name okay.
It is your field name.
Entity field name not column name.
Dot name equals to.
So in this method like whatever the parameter you are getting, if you have a dynamic value you can
you have to map it.
Right.
So that's why I am using at the root param okay.
You can give this param some name.
You can give anything name and the same name.
You have to use it here okay.
So this name and this name should be matching, and then this parameter get ultimately replaced here.
Okay.
So you dot name equals to and whatever the parameter which we have to bind we have to use it like this.
So in the method at the root param user first name I have given the same I have used here and the parameter
name okay.
So it binds method parameter with the named parameter in the query.
So it will bind this user name okay this at the param and this one binds username with this one named
query parameter.
Also there is no restrict strict rule for the return type.
You can ask like hey, what should be the return type?
Can I have a list?
Can I have only one object that depends upon what query you are writing.
Let's say your query can accept or return only.
Uh, let's say that only one one row.
But, but ultimately.
And you have like written like this user detail find, uh, find name something and you have written
your query.
But now when this query ultimately runs, let's say if it return more than one row, but your return
type is only one object, then it will throw an exception.
So the return type you have to select yourself whether this query is going to return me a list, whether
this query is going to return me only one object.
So you have to use it appropriately.
Okay.
But let's say that if there are more than one rows, but in return type a single object, then there
is an exception.
So c j with the join.
How it works.
Very very simple.
Very very similar to SQL join itself.
So C 1 to 1 uh first annotation like how we can use it.
So you know that already we have seen the mapping 1 to 1 how we can create it.
So I have just user detail user address.
One user can have only one address.
So that's why I have put this mapping 1 to 1 mapping.
Now see how I am writing a join query with the jpql?
What are the method name you want to give?
You can give doesn't so don't get confused with the derived query.
You whatever you want, you can give it.
So here if you see I am not using by or anything.
So whatever you want to give so select ud, ud is or user details.
I have given an alias uh ud.
So all select all the fields of a user details from this user detail entity.
Now I want to join.
So now here if you see this user detail has a relationship with the user address.
So this field so uddi dot user address okay.
So now generally in SQL you have right.
Table one.
Table two on right table one dot certain column equals to table two dot certain column.
Generally we have in this SQL.
So table one we have already kind of an entity here join table two.
It's like in the entity we have like user detail dot address okay.
We don't have to provide Gql in this on Gql will automatically add it because it knows that entity how
the foreign key we have maintained in the entity.
Okay, so that's why there is no on here.
Okay.
And directly we ultimately adding where whatever we wanted.
So now here if you see when the query get translated.
So select all the fields of user details from table one.
User details join table to user underscore address.
Okay.
On automatically it JPA added because we are working with entity not directly table.
So here JPA knows that how these two tables are associated 1 to 1.
It knows the mapping which column and are in user detail and which column in user address.
So that's where it does automatically add a on for us.
And after that where clause is added.
Okay.
So you can also see one more thing.
Now you might have a requirement that, hey, I don't want to return all the fields of one entity.
I just want to return like some fields of user detail and some fields of user address.
Okay, then what should be the return type looks like for a method?
So this is the repository.
In this repository you have to create a method like this.
Okay now here if you see in the select query of the jpql, my return type is one field from user detail
name and another from address table.
I want to return only country okay.
Now let's say that if this query where name equals to user first name okay.
Where Uddi dot name equals to first name.
So we are binding like this.
We already seen that.
So this could return multiple rows, right?
Each row contains.
Name.
Comma.
Country.
Name.
Comma.
Country.
Name.
Comma.
Country.
So here if you see it's a list of object array.
List of.
List of object array.
Okay.
So now here if you see when I'm calling this method and passing that name whatever I am getting a list
of object array.
Now in the code you can parse it.
You can iterate over the list.
Now you know that okay the first field is string.
Parse it string.
Second field is also string.
Parse the string okay.
And you might have to now put into a custom DTO.
So I have create one DTO with like name and the country.
And you can simply return this by creating a list of the DTO and return it.
Okay, so that is one way, but you might be sometimes thinking that, hey, this object array doesn't
looks good, right?
Uh, can we have something better?
So here, if you see that from that object array, we are creating our user DTO.
Right.
We are filling this list of DTO we can directly do here itself.
Okay.
We can directly do here itself.
We don't have to return an object array.
We can even return the list of user DTO itself okay.
So see this one.
Now select okay.
What I am returning I am creating a new object new the complete path of your user DTO.
Okay.
And whatever the value which is coming from the query name and the address I am passing, it's like
a constructor.
It's just like you are creating a new object, right?
New user DTO.
And in the constructor you are passing the values.
It's just the same thing.
It's just we have to provide a complete path.
Okay.
And this value is coming from the tables like the entity columns whichever we wanted.
If you are returning four rows like from this query right.
For each query it will create a new object, new DTO, and whatever the values it is coming from your
query like this one object here, one object here.
And it will ultimately create a list of this one.
Okay.
Now this is very important.
Like there is one when we talk about one to many and many to many there is one issue comes is n plus
one problem.
It is very frequently asked in an interview questions also.
Okay I'll tell you it's not that hard.
But yeah there is something like this itself.
So see, the query wise, whether it's one to 1 or 1 to many, the query wise there is no change.
So now here, if you see that I'm creating one to many user detail can have multiple address.
One user can have many addresses.
So I just change one to 1 to 1 to many.
We already seen that.
How to do that.
It's very simple right.
And the queries also remains the same okay.
Select all the fields of a user detail.
I am putting a join.
The join is with user detail list Uddt user detail list right there.
There is no need required of on it already knows that where the name is this.
Okay so I'm trying I'm searching my I'm doing a search on the user detail where the name is, whatever
that's coming into this method.
And it will ultimately do a join at fetch all the list of user addresses also.
Okay.
Now here, if you see that it's.
This query can result into n plus one problem.
How the query wise it's exactly the same.
First see what happens.
If you remember, we learned something about eager initialization and lazy initialization.
Okay.
With now let's say that you have a parent and you have multiple child's.
Child one.
Child two.
Child three with lazy.
It first fetches the parent only.
And when we are trying to access its child, then only it will try to find all its child and in the
eager.
What we have seen till now is when you have a multiple childs and you are using eager, it will at the
first.
When you are trying to find a parent itself, it will automatically also load the child itself.
But remember one use case where eager does not work in this manner.
Let's say that you have a query.
So this is multiple parents.
This is multiple.
Each parent has multiple childs.
If your query is query is like is fetching one parent and multiple child.
Eager will work like this.
What we have seen.
Let's say it will fetch this and all its child also.
But if your query is like it can fetch multiple parent and also multiple child.
Okay, if your query such that it can fetch multiple parent, right?
And for each parent multiple child also, then your eager does not work like what we have seen.
Okay, so how it works is that let's say I'll tell you in a simple way you have two user two parent
parent one parent two okay.
And it has three child.
This also has three child.
And we have created a query that which is matching both the parents.
Okay.
So what how the query will run like this.
First query it will fetch all the parents.
Okay.
So here with this we will get parent one and parent two okay.
Now it will create two different query one for parent one to fetch its childs.
And another query is for parent two to fetch all its childs.
Okay.
So just now imagine instead of this two just imagine there are n.
And each parent have any number of child.
So if your query is like it can fetch n number of parents.
So one query it required, it will fetch n number of parent parent one parent two parent n okay.
One query is to fetch n number of parents, then n number of times it will run for each parent and it
will fetch all its child's parent, one child's parent, two childs like this parent n child's.
So one query plus n queries.
So total n plus one query.
It will hit to fetch all the data.
You got it.
Like the only the scenario when you have multiple your query can fetch multiple parent and each parent
have multiple child.
Then because of performance issue the JPA does like this.
Okay, it eagerly doesn't work.
Like okay for each parent, it automatically goes and fetch all the child in the start itself.
No?
Okay, first it will only fetch all the parents.
And then let's say that you are doing get child for each parent.
It will create.
It will hit the N number of queries to for each parent, it will get the child.
So this does the same thing I have explained here.
Now say I have one user can have many address and our query is such that it can fetch more than one
user.
More than one user mean more than one parent it can fetch.
Then only this can problem can occur.
So say we have n users.
Then below query hit by JPA is one query to fetch all the users.
Okay.
So one query you will fetch user one, user two user n right.
And each user can have multiple child.
So for each user now it will hit and fetch its child's user two child.
So similarly n times it will fetch.
So total n query.
So total n plus one hit.
It will do.
So we need to find a way so that one query only hit instead of n plus one or any better performance
than this before going.
To the solution for this problem, one thing might be coming to a point is why not?
Eager initialization I have already explained you before that eager initialization only works when you
are like only one.
Your query is fetching only one parent and even though it have multiple child doesn't matter.
It will go.
Even if you are trying to fetch one parent, it will automatically go ahead and create a query such
that it will also fetch its child also.
And if you remember, we all did a testing by find by ID, so means only one parent we are only getting.
But as soon as you made a query such that multiple parents are possible, eager initialization won't
work because of performance issue.
Okay, so here you can see this.
An example I have very simple use case.
I have created two username both a a okay okay.
And they have this also.
User ID one also has certain child user ID two also has certain child.
I have kept only one one.
They can have multiple child itself.
Now see my query how it is that select all the rows from the user detail.
Join the user address list where name equals to user first name.
Okay, and in the what I have given in the query AA.
So now my query can user details.
You can see that multiple parent rows can come for each parent rows.
There can be multiple children's row.
So how this works is that it fetch me the data.
But how the queries it will hurt is the first query.
It didn't do eager initialization right.
So here it first fetches only the user detail all the user.
It fetch all the user detail itself say user ID, write all the user ID details like what we have commanded
over here.
Now for each user it is hitting.
So I have two users right.
So for this ID one it is fetching its child for ID user.
So this is for user one.
This is for user two.
It is again fetching its child.
So now here if you see address details.
Okay so now for each user it is making a Select query.
So two queries it is making.
So total one plus two total three queries okay.
So that's why it is known as one plus n issue.
So is like n number of parents I have.
So that many plus one to fetch all the parents.
So how to solve this n plus one problem?
One thing is.
So there are different ways we have seen that earlier.
Uh, we are using derived query.
We are using Jpql.
And also when we were not using both.
Right.
Our repository is empty.
It's empty.
We are using inbuilt.
So in all the scenarios we should be able to handle the n plus one problem.
One thing is using join fetch instead of simple join we can use join fetch.
So this fetch join fetch tell specifically to jpql that make only one query okay.
So here if you see that the it changes the query okay.
Even though I have written only user details here, select user details only, but the query it created
is that it has user details.
It also has the address also.
And it is joining properly.
It is fetching for all the users.
It is fetching.
It's all the child itself in the one query itself.
Okay, so it's like enforcing maybe here you are trying to fetch only users, right?
That's why.
That's why earlier it created only this query because I am trying to fetch only user details so it won't
fetch address details.
Right?
It's just trying to fetch me the user details.
And this select query is because in the return type, maybe JSON parser is trying to fetch the address
details.
So that's where it hit and fetch for each user.
But when you use join fetch in the pre hand itself it says that okay, even though we have provided
user detail, hey, fetch all the respective child details also before hand itself.
so only one query it hit.
The second solution is that using at the rate batch size right.
And we can provide the size.
So here okay let's say that we are not using anything derived or jpql okay.
We are using normal like earlier how we used to see we have provided a relationship, but we can provide
here at the rate batch size size equals to ten.
So here what it will do is that yes.
First, even though I am using eager okay.
And I am trying to hit a query where hey find all find all user give me find all the user let's say.
So what it will do is that even though I have made it eager, I can have multiple users, right?
So it first always go with the okay, get me all the users itself okay.
Once it get me all the users.
Okay.
Now here it will make the child query.
But now here in this case it will use the batch okay.
So it will reduce.
It will reduce the select queries and it won't make like n plus one.
But it will or it won't be like only one.
It won't reduce it from n plus 1 to 1.
But you can say that it will reduce it from this n plus one itself, right?
Because now here, if you see that we are fetching in bulk in the batch, fetch all the user details
in batch instead of one one, one user for each user.
One fetch Child user to fetch child.
Now here, if you see that we are, let's say for ten users we are fetching in a single shot.
So maybe we are reducing some queries hit okay.
So that is one way of doing it.
Another is using at the rate entity graph.
This is generally helpful in the derived method.
In the derive method, actually, we are not writing the query where we can put join fetch right?
So in derive method, generally we can use this at the entity graph.
And here in the attribute we can provide the child table for which we have to fetch all the details
whenever we are trying to load the parent.
As simple as it is okay, so means whenever I am fetching user detail hey in a single shot, also fetch
all the users also.
Okay.
Even though you have.
Even though my query is like fetching three users at a time, fetch its children also in the single
shot.
Okay.
So everything depends upon query how we are writing the query.
So JPA does internally some optimization, right?
So don't get confused in this right.
When your query is fetching only one user okay.
And it has multiple child, why it is creating a query with the join properly and fetching user plus
its child.
But as soon as your query is like multiple child's which can have multiple children, why it is returning
only this user's detail?
Why not child JPA has certain this optimization.
Try that uh, because we know that only three it will return.
JP doesn't know that.
So for optimization purpose it By default it says that okay, I will only fetch user if you require
me to fetch child also do that okay then only then it goes ahead for each user.
It will try to fetch the children details itself on demand basis.
Okay.
But if you enforce it like entity graph or through batch size or through this join fetch, you are enforcing
hibernate.
Or you can say that JPA that hey, go ahead, don't try to optimize it no matter how many users is also
fetches children also.
Okay.
So how to join many many tables.
So let's say table A has relationship with table B.
Table B has relationship with table C.
Doesn't matter with Jpql like how you are how we are writing an SQL, right?
The same thing.
Jpql exactly same.
Let's say that uh, from this is your table a join a dot B list.
So this is your table B join B dot.
This is your table C.
So like this you can increase on join and you don't need on clause.
That's all.
And whatever the Where clause you want you can use it as simple as it is.
Then there is something called at the rate modifying annotation.
This is very interesting.
The Jpql.
Whenever you are writing any query, the by default assumption is that you are going to write a Select
query.
Okay, so now let's say that I have written one delete or insert or update query inside at the rate
query.
I have tried to insert delete something.
Now if I run this, it will throw me an error that hey, expecting a Select query by default JKL expecting
a Select query only.
So we have to use this annotation at the rate modifying above at the rate query.
What your query here.
And we are telling the JPA that hey, expect either delete or update or insert query which is modifying
the database.
Okay, so this annotation is used to tell JPA that accept either delete, insert or update query.
So we are trying to update the DB.
So definitely with this three we have to use the at the rate transactional also.
Okay so like this the same query we can write it.
But since now it is delete we have to use at the rate modifying and at the rate transactional also.
Now there is one very interesting question also comes on top of it the usage of flush and clear.
Like now we are using we are updating the DB with the JP QL.
Okay, so we have data in persistent context also.
So how it impacts I will tell you.
So first understand the difference between flush and clear.
So you have let's say persistence context.
You already know that persistence context.
It's like a first level caching.
And then you have DB let's say db you have entity table A.
And here also persistence context.
You have entity table A okay.
Here you have some value one.
Here it has value two.
Let's say because we are working on it, we might be updating it.
So when you do flush so flush means push the changes of persistence context.
Let's like a committing change it to two.
It's like committing but it do not delete the persistence context data When you do clear persistence
context clear.
So it will remove it.
Like remove this state of this a it is now not managing it.
Okay.
Why I am telling you this.
Okay.
So here consider this use case now.
So I am just saying that I am using at the rate modifying and I am using at the rate query.
I am trying to delete some data from the DB and at the rate transaction I am using at the service layer.
And what I am doing is first let's say uh, you have a table user, your user ID, let's say one.
So first I am doing find by user ID okay.
Find.
And you know that when whenever I will do a find it will put into persistence context.
Now persistence context has ID one also.
Now.
Second, I am doing delete by username.
So I'm calling this in the same.
So it is in the same sequence happening right.
So I'm deleting the DB now.
So this data is deleted.
But now data is present into persistence context.
Now I am doing find by id.
Will I get the data output present.
Is it present true.
It's present because now when you are trying to do find it will not hit the DB, it will return from
here itself.
Persistence, context and data is present here.
So if your use case is that whenever I am updating the DB, my persistence context also get updated
properly.
So in the modifying we have to make flush automatically equals to true clear automatically equals to
true.
Flush means whatever the data is present into the persistence context, update it and then clear it
also okay.
So now if you do that what we are getting first we have let's say here db id one.
Here we have a persistence context ID one let's say because we did a first find.
Then we did by delete we deleted it.
And then we are doing when we deleted it.
We also put modifying flush.
True we haven't modified anything.
So there is nothing need to update.
Clear automatically equals to true.
So it will remove the data from persistence context.
Now when you're trying to fetch from the that, it will try to not fetch from persistence.
It will try to hit from DB and does value present now no false okay, so if the question arises right
when you are using at the rate modifying with jpql how you are, uh.
managing the data in the persistence context.
We can say that by clear automatically and flush automatically setting it to true.
And also pagination and sorting in jql is exactly similar to what we have seen in the derived query.
So whatever the method you are writing, where you are putting out that query in the same method, like
you just put at the right pageable and also sort if you want.
And the same in the service, you can pass it like in the derive.
We are passing it so no change in that it will work as it is.
So pagination and sorting is exactly the same.
Now there is one more concept called at the rate named query annotation.
So as the name says that we can name our query so that we can reuse it.
Let's say that if you have any use case where a same query is used at multiple places in your code.
So instead of duplicating it, we can write the query into one place using at the rate name query.
We can give it a name, and in our code base we can use that name directly.
So generally whatever the entity class which we have in that we write this at the rate name query,
whatever the query which you have to write, write it here.
Again it's a jpql for now.
And you can give it a name like this.
Find by username.
You can give any name.
Okay.
So on top of entity you have to use it like this given name and the query whichever you want to write.
Now in the repository or anywhere a different repository of user.
Okay.
Whatever the method you have at the top you have to write that query, right.
Now you don't have to write the query.
You can just use name find by username.
So it will automatically use this query itself.
Right.
And the same name you can use at multiple places in your code base so that you don't have to duplicate
your query.
And in future, if any, change in the query you have to make, you have to make only one place.
Okay.
So that's I hope that's the purpose of it's clear.
So in next video I will tell you about criteria API specification API and native query.
Okay.
And some other topics.
But yeah, that's pretty much uh, sorry because JPA is going uh, so many parts.
There are so many content, uh, or so many topics in JPA.
I don't want to skip any part, so please bear with me.
And I hopefully in the next part nine itself, I will complete it.
Okay guys, see you soon.
Bye.

--- Spring boot: JPA  | Native Query and Criteria API ---

Hey guys on this side, welcome to concept and coding.
And let's start without wasting any time.
So till now we have already seen about Jql.
Now let's see about Native Query.
So what is native query?
Native query is nothing but a plain SQL.
Queries directly interact with database.
Thus if in future DB changes code changes.
Also required means that since now you are writing queries which are DB dependent, right?
Direct plain SQL queries we are writing.
So in future let's say you are changing from MySQL to another DB.
Definitely you have to change the queries too.
No caching.
Now we are not using JPA functionality.
We are directly writing plain queries.
So no caching like persistent context which we were using like and also no lifecycle management of an
entity happen.
So these are some of the you can say that points which has to be considered.
Now the question might comes to your mind.
Then hey then why to use over jxl itself.
So there are certain requirements.
Like you have to write more complex queries which are like jsonb, like there are like a JSON column
right in your table and you have to query that today.
Jxl do not support it.
You can access it through native query.
Even there you know that in the jxl everything is related with entity, okay.
Whatever the columns entity has, you can have either full entity like say user or user dot field one,
user dot field two.
But you cannot expect a result which is not there in an entity like count as stress.
You have to fetch it.
Can you do with the jxl?
No, you can't do it.
Or let's say that even if you have to write a join in which two entities are not related, let's say
entity one, entity two, they do not have any relation 1 to 1.
One to many, many to many anything.
So with the JKL, which is dependent on entity like join is generally complicated.
Okay, so with native query it's like how you support normally.
Okay.
Right.
You can directly do joining between unrelated entities also.
That is also possible query efficiency in bulk operation in JKL.
What happens is IT entities are managed right by JPA.
Its lifecycle is also managed and also the cache is also updated.
So it has to keep persistence context updated which is your caching.
You can say that L1 caching, right?
So it's a little slower than the native which directly works on the DB, so native queries are little
faster.
So depending upon which use case you fall, you have to go for either jpql or native query.
But these are you can say that certain of the advantages and disadvantages of native query How you can
write a native query.
Very, very simple.
You might have seen how we were writing a query of the jpql at query annotation.
Right value equals to write a plain SQL query.
Just also add native query equals to true.
Okay.
So now JP understand that this is it has to consider a plain SQL query okay.
Everything else is same.
Like how what we see in the jpql the same method way.
Like whatever the param you have to provide.
It's like this same only same like jpql no difference.
Only thing is just provide native query equals to true.
And now you can use like a plain query.
One thing just see here that select asterisk from this is now not my entity not my entity Java entity
user detail.
It is my actual table name user underscore detail.
This is my table name where this is the field is now actually my DB field name.
Okay, maybe in the entity I have something name, but in DB I am saying it is a user underscore name.
So in the native query, all the things which you are writing a query, just write from the DB perspective.
Okay, that's the only one point which you have to consider.
So now one question might have come to your mind by looking at this query.
Okay.
Like the same Jpql I have written this method and I have written above the query.
When I have written select stress how it knows that this stress should be like return type of user detail.
Okay, because in Jpql we might have written you which like all the entity and it knows that it is an
entity, so it will automatically mapped it.
So when all the fields like stress is used okay.
So internally does the mapping between DB column name and entity field name.
Right?
So whenever a stress in the native query stress is used.
Right.
So whatever the form you are using right in this user detail repository, it will ultimately do a mapping
like field by field okay.
So you will get all the data.
But what happens when you return the partial field.
So here if you see now I am returning partial fields.
Select user name and phone only two fields from user details where name equals to like this native query
equals to true.
Now how it will do the mapping to this.
Because we know that whenever we are using an asterisk like it will do a mapping with this user detail
itself.
But what about this?
What if I use this only two fields?
Will the JPA will do mapping.
No.
If you start try to test it.
You will get an exception.
Column user ID not found.
It will not be able to map.
Okay, in case you have only particular fields to be returned from the native query, you have to explicitly
take care of doing the mapping.
Okay, so that is one extra task is involved.
Now how we can do the mapping.
There are two ways.
One way is using the SQL result set mapping annotation, which is used with at the rate name native
query annotation.
They both are used together.
And the second way I will.
It's an object array that we will see.
So let's see the first one.
Very easy.
Nothing much.
Now let's say that I have created one dto all the specific fields which I am expecting in the user query
which is going to run.
I have written it here.
I have a constructor which is accepting the fields and getter setter for this one.
Okay, so I am expecting only username and phone, that's all.
Only these two fields.
So I have written in the DTO.
Okay, now in your entity class, in your entity user detail entity class, we have to first write native
named named native query.
We have already seen right named query in Jpql.
Right.
Uh, so there is something called named Native query.
Okay.
So first thing is name, just provide any name, whatever you want to give, provide a name to your
query.
Second is that write a proper query plain SQL.
Select only two fields one and two.
Whatever the fields you are expecting, write a proper plain query.
Okay, that is the in the query field.
The third one is result set mapping.
Whatever the result is coming user name and phone it is getting mapped to what.
So now here the second part comes into the picture SQL result set mapping.
So whatever the field output is coming from the above query, we have to now do a mapping.
And for that we have using SQL result set mapping.
Its name is I have given user DTO mapping and the same name is used here in the above one.
So now what happened is here.
If you see what ultimately I am doing here is I told that hey, whatever the result you are getting
username and phone, pass it to the user DTO constructor and pass it in this sequence the username first
second parameter is phone my first parameter username, second is phone.
Okay, in this sequence it passed.
So what internally it will do is whatever the query which you are running and the result which you are
getting okay.
Then it will invoke this mapping which is annotated with SQL result set mapping okay.
And here with this syntax okay.
Constructor result which target class user dto class.
So it will create an object of this.
Okay.
And the value it will pass is this one username and phone.
First parameter would be username and phone.
So this is how we are mapping it.
And this named native query and result set mapping SQL results and mapping is always used above and
entity above.
I have used our user detail.
So now in the user repository you don't have to write like above at the query and the full query name.
We can do simply at the query and the name.
Whatever the query name you have to run like we have already seen previously in the named query.
So I have given this name, run this query, and I have told that it's a native query equals to true.
So expect it to be a native named native query.
Expect it to be a named native query.
Okay so I have just given a name.
Then this query will run.
It will do a internal mapping.
And this mapping would be used where it will create an object of user DTO and whatever the field it
is coming, it will pass like this.
So this is first way of doing a mapping when you are not returning all the fields.
The second way is manual mapping.
Manual mapping in the sense is that I am writing the same like SQL query before write our native query.
It's true.
So like a plain SQL query I am returning username and phone.
Now here if you see I am not returning user details, I am returning object array.
So list of object array.
List of object array.
In the object array it's of two size.
First is username comma phone then second also is username comma phone username comma phone.
Like this it will come.
So in the service class when you are invoking the repository, this method you are getting a output
is list of object array.
You have to do map mapping.
So here I am doing a mapping.
So I'm using a stream.
Okay.
If you don't know about the stream at the top I am sharing the Java stream where I've already explained
it properly, so check it if you don't know it.
But this is simple, right?
All the result which I'm getting iterate over it.
Okay, now I'm mapping it.
I'm creating an object of user DTO.
First one I am passing as a name and second one I'm passing to the this constructor second parameter
like this.
And I'm collecting into a list.
Okay, ultimately I'm sending the list of user DTO because I'm creating an object of user DTO.
So this is the way of manual mapping through object array.
If you don't want to use SQL result set mapping.
But if you have a scenario where you can directly use stress, then you don't need all this.
You can directly return the entity.
JPA will automatically take care of mapping the DB column names to a Entity field name.
Okay, now there is one more advantage of native queries.
Dynamic native query in the jpql.
There is nothing like a dynamic Jpql.
Okay, we will see that there is a different name.
There is no like dynamic Jpql.
There is a different name criteria API, but there is something called dynamic native query.
How it's used in the dynamic native query.
Now repository is not into the picture.
Okay.
In the service class itself we are using Entity Manager now.
Okay.
Now let's say that you have a scenario that okay in my Where clause I have to dynamically put the conditions
like let's say if user is passing name, then only I have to put a name condition name, let's say equals
to whatever user is passing.
If user is not passing name into the parameter, I don't want to add this also.
So I don't want to fix my query that where.
Condition one.
Condition two.
Condition three.
Okay.
Might be in some cases I have only condition two and three.
In some cases only condition two only in some cases all three.
So dynamically you have to manage your query.
How you can do that.
So here in this one in the service class let's say you have this method okay.
And let's say whatever you are the input fields are coming into the parameter method parameter.
So it's a normal string builder.
So first I am creating a normal string builder okay.
So here if you see new string builder I have written a plain SQL query.
I am just appending from user details like db query only.
I am also doing joining.
I am also appending where one equals to one.
This is just a dummy because I can add dynamically more query.
Let's say if zero is added, at least I have where clause present.
So one equals to one is why you might be thinking why I am doing this.
Let's say that if I am not doing this then you have to be like okay, condition one I have to add.
Then you have to put like first where okay with condition one, then condition, let's say condition
one is false.
It's not even like name is not there.
So condition one I don't have to add.
Then you have to always take care that okay where is properly set or not okay.
And if let's say that no condition is matched then okay.
Where should not even come.
So with all this, uh, complexity, this, uh, help us like we where one equals to one, right?
It will automatically save us from this one.
So.
Yeah.
So where one equals to one.
Now all we have to do is if any more condition added.
So we just do either and, or or whatever we wanted or if no condition added then also our query is
perfect Okay.
So one thing is added now dynamically adding the condition.
So one thing is let's say that I am passing a username just for demo purpose.
Username not equals to null and username is not empty means I want to put the condition.
So I'm putting appending the query builder.
It's a string right.
So I'm just adding and username equals to question mark okay.
So this question mark later has to be filled up okay.
So what would be the.
So that's why I'm creating a list of parameters.
List of parameter will store into a sequence.
So for each question mark in the list of parameter I am storing that what it has to be filled with.
So parameter dot add username whatever the username it is coming into this one okay.
Now let's say you have uh like this.
If else you have multiple if else.
So multiple question mark and multiple value.
You have to add into that.
You have added into this parameter.
You have done that.
After that what you have to do is we have to use an entity manager, create native query and you pass
this Stringbuilder dot two string.
What it will do is it will give us a query object.
Now at this point of time, your Stringbuilder this get converted to this query object which will look
like this.
Okay, here still question mark is not yet replaced with this.
Your actual values.
Now you have the query.
Now what is the second thing we have to do is execute it okay.
So before execution we have to now fill this question mark.
So generally what it does is in this I am iterating over the list of this parameters okay I am iterating
over this.
Each question mark right native query dot set parameter okay.
Now what it will do is it will start.
Let's say you have three in your query.
You have three question mark.
So it start with like one, two, three position like this.
So for each question mark because for loop is started with zero.
Because in the list whatever the parameter starting from zero right.
But this question mark internally it is JPA considered from like 123 okay.
So for each question mark we have to put a proper parameter we have to take out from the parameter list
and fill it up.
And now once your query is properly built up all you have to do is get result list.
It will return you a list of result.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that I am my.
Output is like a specific fields which I am querying okay.
So I am accepting into an object of array.
Now you can do mapping like okay zero would map to this field.
One would be mapped to that field that upon us that we can do the mapping and return it.
But the main point here.
Dynamic native query I want to tell you that you can even write complex queries which are dynamic in
nature in the Where clauses.
So you can write like this.
But here you have to do lot of work.
Okay.
First of all you are creating a stringbuilder.
Then you are creating a parameter list, right?
Or then you are taking the responsibility of replacing those parameter lists into a question mark.
Then you are executing it.
Then you are doing proper mapping and then return it.
So that is one thing, but pagination and sorting I will also tell you in the native SQL in both the
approach with dynamic or with the direct at the query that also.
But I hope dynamic native query is clear how it is actually used.
So first way in the dynamic, I would say that dynamic native query way.
How can you can use an pagination and sorting.
So see it's very simple like how we are writing a plain SQL the same way we have to write it like nothing.
No different syntax.
We have to remember.
So I have written a proper query which I wanted all the if else condition I have dynamically, I added
it and properly added into the parameter also in this list.
Okay, now I have to append like a sorting.
Let's say I want to sort order by.
So it's the same query builder.
It's a string only, right?
Uh query builder dot append order by like in the same query.
After all, where clause has been done.
After all, where I have to do order by whatever the append with descending, it's a normal SQL queries.
We are just a string builder, it's just appending.
Okay, so sorting is done after that.
For pagination in the plain SQL query what we have is limit and offset.
So the same thing we have to set like query builder Querybuilder.
Dot append.
Limit.
Question mark.
Offset.
Question mark.
Now we have to put it into a parameter list.
Also.
Parameter dot add size.
So this is ultimately your size.
Okay like in one page how many records.
And then offset like page number page zero page one page two.
Like so this would be your offset.
Okay.
Now we get a native query.
We just uh, replace the question mark in the native query with the values which is present into this
one.
Okay.
And then ultimately executed the query.
Okay.
So it is as straightforward as it is like nothing.
But if you talk about pagination in the like how we can do it.
Like if you are using the query annotation and native query equals to true, it's the same way how we
were doing in Jpql.
We have a method page page label parameter which we can append it.
We don't have to write anywhere here.
Okay.
That automatically JPA will do this for append it for us.
Okay.
Now in the just request we can just send the page request dot of okay, what is the offset page number
and the size of a page okay.
And if you have to sort it you can like this.
We have already discussed in the JPL before itself.
So it is same nothing differ.
And if you see the query it will generate like this.
It will automatically add offset pagination properly for you.
So this is one detail like I have a user details okay 1 to 7.
And if your query is like uh on phone.
So this is 1234567.
So we are sort by phone descending.
So 7654321 and page zero and five.
So 12345.
2345.
So this will come.
7654321 5 in 1 page.
So guys, if you think that I'm going a little fast, it's because we have already covered most of the
things in the previous videos.
So this page and all we have already seen this query notation.
We have already seen.
Nothing much differs in the native query.
It's just like native query equals to true okay.
So it's just like a context like how it is actually used.
Rest everything is same.
Okay.
So if you are finding the pace a little bit fast, it's I would highly recommend that.
Please watch out the previous video that would help you to set up a context like why it's linked with
the previous video.
Okay, now one question to you comes to mind.
Right?
Hey, we have Jpql, but I feel that native query is much more better, even though it has very much
DB dependent.
But at least I can write dynamic queries.
And this is something which is very important in the industry, right?
Because we have everything dynamic which like no queries is static.
So then I think JPL, JPL, we will never use it.
We will always go with this.
So.
It's there but with the name criteria API.
Okay.
You know that JPL biggest advantage is that it is managed by JPA.
And when and when it is managed by JPA, you know that there is a framework which takes care of updating
the caching, persistence, context and entities lifecycle.
You don't have to worry about object which one is creating, which one is destroying.
So everything is properly taken care.
So with native SQL, everything comes to your bucket.
You have to handle it and also it is DB independent in once you return in future You change from MySQL
to something else.
Nothing got changed.
Okay, so criteria API comes into the picture where it supports like the same JPA enable like JPA manage
this.
It works on entity not on direct DB.
So it's DB independent.
Okay.
And we can write dynamic queries with this.
So native SQL query support dynamic query building but their database dependent.
That's why JPA criteria API exists.
It allow you to build dynamic type safe queries without writing raw SQL.
Okay.
You don't have to write a raw SQL where you get a chance that your you are writing right.
Select asterisk from.
If you don't know SQL query.
Let's say you mistake with a you you wanted to write A and D, but you write a MD So there is like not
a type safe, but here it's a type safe because everything now we are dealing with object.
So syntax wise it would be like you don't have to worry about that here.
Everything is a string.
You are putting a string.
If there is some mistake you won't get it.
So that's why I'm saying it's a build a dynamic type.
Safe queries.
Sometime some engineer feels that criteria API is very difficult to understand, but I feel it easy
if you understand it through hierarchy.
So this is the hierarchy which I have created.
This will give you a quick glance, like how we can create criteria APIs in a very simple manner.
So the first is criteria builder.
This criteria builder is used to create everything okay.
So first criteria builder we use to create a criteria query.
This criteria query is nothing but your actual query which you want to write.
But here we are not writing direct string, we are using it through object.
So in this criteria query we can do from we can do even join we if we have to like select only specific
columns we can use multi-select.
If you have to do all columns we can use select method.
We have like a where where you can put filters.
So filters like condition.
Here it is defined through predicate okay.
You have like and or not between different conditions you have order group by having.
So all comes under criteria query.
You can whatever it's required to build a criteria query.
You will find different method here.
Once the query is created okay.
Now Criteria builder helps you to execute it.
So after that, once the you got a query, now you have to execute it.
So here it has something called type query object which executes the above criteria query which you
have created.
So this typed query also has multiple fields like get result list.
It will return you a list of rows like so.
It's you will accept like a list of something get single result only you will get one object, let's
say user one object, and also have certain like where you can put a pagination like things set first
result.
It's like an offset page number 012 and maximum result in one page.
What is the limit.
So if we understand this hierarchy then it would be very very easy to use criteria API to write any
query.
Okay, let's see one example I have created one controller class.
Get user details by phone criteria API.
So it's a dynamic I am building.
Like if phone number comes then only add it.
Okay.
And whatever the phone number I am sending, use it.
So this is the get API.
Now in the service class if you see what I am doing is I am using Entity Manager.
This is my criteria API where I am doing.
So I have got a phone number.
What is the first step in the criteria API?
We have to create a criteria builder because from that criteria builder itself, we will be creating
a criteria query and executing that query.
So we use entity manager.
From that we do get criteria builder.
We get now a Criteria builder object.
First step is completed we created an object of criteria builder.
Now from this criteria builder we have.
The second step is to create a criteria query.
Okay.
This is the second step.
Like we have to create a criteria query.
So now from the criteria builder I am creating a criteria query.
Okay.
Now what is this internally.
Internally what my each row looks like that we can tell.
Let's say that if you have a query where you are doing a stress means all the objects, all the objects,
all the fields of a particular entity.
Okay.
Then you can do user details dot class.
If you have like a specific field like field one, field two comma field three, then you can use object
array okay.
So whatever your each row looks like you can add it here.
Okay.
So currently my here in this demo I am using Select stress for now.
So for stress is like since this we is we are talking about entity.
So all entity you it's let's say user detail entity.
So each row is my user detail okay.
So now I have created the criteria query.
Now from this criteria query I have actually have to create everything.
Let's say select from where order by having so that I have to do so from this criteria query I am doing
first like from which table.
So table name we have to give right from which table it has to fetch the record.
So from this table I have to fetch the record okay.
So now the first table.
So it is possible right from table one join let's say table two.
So this table one which is first one right.
It is always known as root.
The first one is also always known as root okay.
So now I have added the From clause.
It is here in the root.
Now I have to also like select either one row or multiple rows whatever.
So I am using criteria query the same query dot select user okay.
Select all the fields of this table okay.
So first I told you that this user represent the first table.
So criteria query dot select.
If you have a specific fields you can do criteria query dot multi select and whatever the fields like
user dot field one comma user dot field two.
Like this.
But here I want all the fields.
That's why I put user and I have used select which is equivalent to select asterisk.
So okay I have done this I have done this from now I have to use where.
So criteria query dot where.
Now I am adding a Where clause.
Now in this where clause I have to add condition.
So condition is here predicate.
So now I am creating a predicate.
So predicate is created.
Here is like criteria builder.
Criteria builder helps in creating a predicate.
Criteria builder dot equals.
There are multiple methods I will tell you.
So I want to like phone number equals to whatever the phone number is coming.
You can make it dynamic.
Like if phone number is present then only do this.
Otherwise don't do it.
Okay so currently I am just writing like criteria builder dot equals whatever the field name in the
table you have.
So my this table user table right.
The first route table user dot get this is the field.
Okay.
This is your entity field name not table DB column name entity field name.
Maybe in DB it is known as phone underscore number.
But actually in entity Java it is known as phone okay.
So I'm using that name.
So this object user dot get phone comma phone number which is coming from the input parameter.
So criteria builder dot equals.
So it is like a condition it is making like for phone equals to the phone number which is coming.
It is creating a condition.
And I am using that condition and putting into this Where clause.
So with this I have also created a Where clause.
I don't want order by having and also now I my criteria is done.
So I am using an entity manager create query.
Now I am creating a query out of it.
Typed query.
Okay so I'm creating a typed query out of it.
Whatever the criteria query comes.
I generated a query typed query out of it which can be now executed.
So here JPA might have done some mapping.
Or you can say that some translation, what we have written and it gives us a typed query.
Now this query directly can be written run.
I run get result list means return me more than one.
This query can return more than one row.
So that's why I use this and accept it into a list and return.
So that one is clear.
Okay, so just see this example I have like select from user details.
So these are the data present into currently my DB 121 2110 three records 123 okay I am trying to uh
hit a get API phone number.
I am passing is 120 in the controller.
120 I am passing and the same 120 goes here, so ultimately it will.
It should do.
Phone number equals to this one.
So I should only get the list of output where phone number matches to 120.
So here I will get only this two where 120 matches okay.
And if you see the query it is select kind of an asterisk.
All the fields from this is on my route where clause.
This is the predicate and which is get it there.
Okay so one question comes to my mind right okay.
In this predicate generation CB dot equals what all different things we can do.
So here if you see these all things we can do.
CB dot equal like whatever the field from the table you want then the value okay.
So generally any condition is like field equals to something 123 field like.
So this is the first field name right.
So and the field name is from your route table.
So it is checked for equality where phone equals to 123.
This is your condition.
Then you have CB dot not equal field.
And the value it would be like phone not equals to 123.
Then cb.gt which is greater than like field and the value phone greater than greater than equals to
LTE.
Less than less than equals to.
So these are there in the comparison operator okay.
Then we have logical operator.
Logical operator means like cb dot.
And so like you have something like condition one and condition two.
So it also has this criteria builder dot and predicate one comma predicate two condition one comma condition
two.
So like phone equals to 123.
And name is like something like this SJ.
So you have.
This is my condition predicate one.
This is my predicate two and we are now just combining it.
Similarly cb or cb dot not.
It's not negation.
So here if you see I am creating predicate one criteria builder dot equals phone this one.
So it is one condition.
I am creating another condition.
Criteria builder not equals name AA.
This is second.
I have to now club it.
So CB dot end I club it and it will become my this predicate.
And then I use put it into the where clause.
Similarly string operations you have like CB dot like also you have this one.
You can use it like field name and how you wanted it CB dot not like.
So it's very straightforward.
Like this has all the possible where things which we can have like it has that like cb dot n cb dot
naught okay.
So in it's a collection right?
CB dot n user dot get phone like n you will have like what all the possible values it can come here.
So value .11.7. you can put anything okay.
So similarly like you can use it not in.
So here I will show you one example how to do select multiple fields okay I till now I have shown you
like select stress one.
But for the same criteria API you can do this.
So first step we know we have to create a criteria builder object because this is ultimately used to
be used to create everything.
So criteria builder I used it to create a criteria query.
But here this one is like what each row would look like.
So my each row would look like object array because field one comma.
Field two comma field three.
It could be a string.
It could be long.
It could be in something.
So it's object array then.
So this is my second part is done.
Then the third one is like from my table one.
Table one is known as root generally here.
So root whatever the table one.
So criteria query dot from this is my table.
Then I have to putting a select like whatever the fields.
So here I am using now criteria query multi select.
Because I can have not extras I can have multiple fields.
So from this table user I can have like whatever the fields I wanted to fetch.
Then I created a predicate which is nothing but a condition.
And I put into the where clause.
I created a type query out of this Entitymanager.
Pass this query and run it.
Now output will look like object array because this is what I told my.
Each row would look like this.
So and result list will return the list not one.
So list of each row would look like this.
And I'm doing a mapping in the user DTO like object array.
Uh, first is string, second is phone.
And in the new DTO pass like this and return it.
Very simple.
Okay.
And it is also possible to do joining also.
So nothing much differs.
So here if you see we have like from table one then you have like join whether inner join left join
table two okay.
And here in this we don't need on and something because we it is like a JP.
It is on entity.
So it knows that this entity is related with this column.
So the same thing I created a criteria builder.
I created a criteria query out of this criteria builder.
And each row is looks like this.
Because multi-select I might be doing it.
My table one from Claus is this user detail.
So and the first table is known as root here.
So this is my first table.
Now I am joining my first table dot join.
What type of join join type is inner either here you can have also right left right right join and which
table you want to join.
User address.
So here again if you open the user detail entity class okay there would be like at the rate 1 to 1 mapping.
And the field user address is the another entity there.
Whatever the field name I have right.
I use that only I am not using the table name of that user address okay.
Entity has the relationship.
So this is the field name in the user details 1 to 1 mapping okay.
So this route table first table dot join with this user address I want to do inner join.
So it will like this.
it will come.
Join your table one.
And this would be considered your table two.
Generally means or I would say that since you are talking entity one, entity two.
Okay.
So now from is done this join query is done.
Now we have to do select.
Now I have to do multiple right.
Each row is look like object array.
So multiple select criteria query dot multi select.
So one field I want from user route table user dot get name.
Second from the let's say from address table I want this city only.
So this is my represent like a second entity join second table.
So address dot get city then it's a predicate condition you added.
You create a type query run it.
Since it's an object array you have to do a mapping and return it.
That's all.
Okay.
So this is as simple as it is, and pagination and sorting is also very much are not that complicated.
But here one thing is like we have to add it like in the hierarchy.
If you see we have to use this methods to for pagination.
So here if you see this is how you can do criteria builder object I created a criteria query.
Now I want select each row is my complete details.
Okay so user details I have added from clause.
There is no join.
I put select all columns of user detail.
Select is like all column of this predicate.
This is my condition where clause I have added into that.
Now after this where clause I need to do sorting okay.
So criteria query also has order by so order by.
Now you have to like uh Which field?
Okay.
So whether descending this field should be descending increasing whatever.
So you can find a field like this user dot get root right user dot get whatever the field and criteria
builder offers like dot descending, dot increasing.
So you can use that order by name.
Descending it will translate to this.
And for pagination once you get the typed query now type query has this two method.
That first result which is kind of an offset page number maximum result.
What is each page gonna look like.
And ultimate run it.
So if you understand that hierarchy right criteria query is very simple right.
All this like uh methods we have to invoke okay.
So if you see this like exactly same uh descending order and five like one page is five.
I am sending page zero five.

--- Spring boot: JPA  | Specification API ---

Okay.
So now let's start with the specification API.
So in the criteria API there are two major issues.
One is code duplicity okay.
And another is there are lot of code boilerplate.
Let me explain.
You like code duplicity how it is.
So if you see this your criteria API which we are writing, we are writing here.
Predicate.
Right.
We are creating a predicate.
It is nothing but a condition in the Where clause.
It is possible that same condition can be present at multiple methods multiple classes.
So the same predicate is reused at multiple, not reused like duplicated at multiple places okay.
So that is one of the issue with the criteria API there.
Like there are lot of duplicate code can be present in the form of this predicates.
The same conditions can be present at multiple methods.
Okay.
And currently I have only one predicate.
But let's say that this method itself, let's say I have five predicate.
And those five predicates might be used in different 50 or hundreds of methods different.
So there are a lot of code duplicate.
So the first challenge which resolves by specification API is code duplicity.
The second challenge is which I told code boilerplate.
If you again see your code of the criteria API, you will see so many like criteria.
You have to create criteria builder.
You have to create criteria query.
You have to add it into from clause.
You have to add it into the Where clause, you have added into the like typed query pagination and then
ultimately run it.
So this is all known as boiler code, which like all your business logic, is that what are the conditions
which you want to add, like from which table you want to fetch the data.
Do you want any join or not.
And what are the where clauses?
That's all you are interested in.
But which objects do we create?
Criteria builder criteria query how to set it.
That is not your business logic right?
So this is known as code boilerplate.
Extra code you have to write to make your functionality run.
So with specification API that is also removed.
We'll go one by one.
Let's see that how the code duplicity can be removed from specification API.
So if you see the specification interface this specification interface has only one abstract method
which is two predicate.
It has another method, but it has its implementation.
So this functional interface or interface, which has only one abstract method, is generally known
as functional interface.
Okay.
So we have to provide an implementation for this.
Let's see that it would get clear how we have to use the two predicate method to remove the code.
Duplicity.
Publicity.
The first step is we have to create a new class user specification class.
And in this class we have to write a method like.
Each method is generally considered as one condition.
One predicate.
Okay, if you have ten predicate which you are thinking to add in your like query, you can write for
this entity user user detail entity.
You can write all the predicates here.
So my one condition is like one predicate.
Here is phone equals to like whatever the phone number comes.
So I have written like equals phone.
You can give anything whatever the phone number is coming.
And here like the same thing which we were doing in criteria API.
Right.
CB dot equals like root is like whatever your first table name the phone and the phone number.
This will ultimately return your predicate.
Okay.
And I am using a lambda expression like if you don't know how to use a lambda expression and functional
interface, how they are tied up together.
So at the top you will get a link in the like.
I have covered in depth about the functional interface Lambda expression.
If you have any doubt with this one how it is working, kindly have a look at once.
Otherwise you will find little bit difficult like how it is actually working.
So the first step which we have done is we have created a class and each method we have provided a lambda
expression.
And in this lambda expression like it is expecting whatever the abstract method is, it would accept
this three parameter.
And once the three parameter is accepted, it has to do this.
So here I am doing nothing but a equals condition.
What we were doing in criteria API.
Now how to use it.
Now in the service class let's say similarly what we are doing in criteria API first created an object
of criteria builder, second, created a criteria query and each row will look like this.
Like I am getting all the row, all the fields of this table.
I have added a from clause.
This is my first table like from this table this is considered as route.
Select all the columns of this route table.
Now the for the predicate.
Now you see that I remove that predicate from here and I'm just invoking a method.
So here I have first user specification dot equals phone number.
So I am so this since this is static I am directly using class dot equals phone and whatever the phone
number which is coming.
So I got this specification.
Now I will use this to call the two predicate method this one and this predicate method.
Except this three parameter user route.
Whatever the first table criteria and the criteria builder.
Okay.
With that this function will get implemented because it's a lambda expression we have provided for it
specification two predicate.
So it will now return me the predicate and it will come here again.
If you are not sure how this is working.
Kindly have a look at the function interface and lambda expression once Linq might be coming at top
right.
Now here if you see that if there are more methods, which are you want to use the same predicate.
Now they don't have to write it on.
They just invoke it.
Okay.
And rest of everything is same like how we are using in criteria API.
So one thing we have resolved is code duplicity, right?
By removing the predicate from the method to a separate method in a separate class.
And that method can be used by different methods from different places in the code.
Okay.
So we are use nothing but a specification API okay.
It's a abstract method two predicate and implementation we have provided in a separate class itself.
Okay.
So very very straightforward.
The second problem which we have is with the code boilerplate.
Again I told you that there are so many things which we have to create an object just to write it,
which is considered as a code boilerplate.
So with this specification we can remove it by using JPA specification executor.
So JPA specification specification executor has multiple methods which we can use like find one, find
all exist.
And if you open any one of the method and see its implementation, you will see that it is doing everything
for us.
So here it's I'm showing you the framework code find all get query.
So if you go inside this it is creating a criteria builder.
It is creating a criteria query.
Then it is creating a from clause.
It is creating a predicate.
It is creating a Where clause.
Ultimately it is doing get result right.
Everything it is doing.
So all we have to tell like from each table if there is a join.
Join with what?
What?
All the predicates.
I have to add it into the query.
That's all.
And everything.
Object creation is done by it.
So how to use it?
So there this is the step.
So first is in the repository we have to extend JPA specification executor.
It will still be empty.
Now since we have extend our repository class with repository interface with JPA specification executor.
This internally has all these methods.
We can use it directly.
So we don't have to like implement it anything.
This is first thing.
Second thing create a new class.
Write all the predicate which you have to write.
We have created all the methods or predicates.
Now one thing you have to understand one thing that specification is generally for predicate predicate
conditions only.
Okay.
So here you can say that this is a kind of hack Where I am writing a joint address, where I have updated
my route with the join, what we were doing.
But I am returning null.
I don't want any conditions here.
Okay, so we can do that and I don't want any condition but I have updated.
Do a join here.
Okay, so that is how you can extend the functionality.
Okay.
If in future you want to do join and then you can reuse this method.
Now in this method of specification you see that it is look very simpler than what criteria API looks
like.
So I am calling user detailed repository find all and passing the specification which I am creating
here.
So I want like specification dot where.
Okay now I am just telling like you create an object, you fetch whatever you want to fetch the data
from tables.
Now I am just giving you the conditions predicates where this is your first predicate join address.
So in join address are we doing anything?
No.
We are returning null with no condition.
But we have extended the join functionality with the root.
Okay, so where the first predicate where we have done the joining.
Okay then I am doing an and operation with the second predicate equals phone.
This is my second.
And then I am doing and like name aa this one added third.
So I got one specification that I am passing to result.
So now here if you see the code.
Okay I am doing find all and I'm passing this result.
How it will work.
So see this one.
First go inside where it has properly checked if it is null.
Don't do anything, okay.
Don't do anything.
Then the second is end.
Now end has this logic properly that it has to resolve the left predicate and the right predicate,
so it can go in recursion also.
Okay.
After resolving it then it will goes to the another end.
Then it will goes to first this predicate and that predicate left and right.
The framework will create an object.
It will create an and criteria builder criteria query like everything it will create.
Okay.
So here this predicate right here it will ultimately get resolved through your this methods whatever
the predicates you are writing.
And since we are doing this end right and predicate and all so it automatically resolve like solve left,
solve right, solve left, solve right.
So this ultimately would be get called to resolve like equals, like name and all those things, it
will get invoked properly.
Okay, so try to debug it, try to implement it.
Then you will realize that like okay specification API is nothing different than criteria API.
It just like solving this two functionality.
If you compare with the criteria API here, if you see lot of boilerplate and duplicacy has been removed,
now we are just doing this and it is very easy to understand specification dot where.
Condition one.
Condition two.
Condition three.
Yeah.
One challenge is there that if you want to do join and all there is no direct method available.
So that's why we are currently doing hack here that whatever the route will come we are updating it
but no predicates right?
No condition I want to add.
Or you can do also that one equals to one something.
Generally we don't do that.
Uh cb dot conjunction CB dot congestion is the method which do one equals to one.
Generally we don't say that, just pass null.
JPA framework will take care that it won't do anything for it.
Okay.
But generally specification is for predicates conditions only.
Right.
Condition as much as you can.
Okay.
And you just pass the condition specification to your find all.
It will replace all the predicates uh, internally, but it will always be like here if you see always
like select all the rows.
Right.
Will return like if it is not a page get return list.
If it is a pageable it will return up a specific page.
If you are clear with the function interface and lambda expression, again this becomes very very simple
to use specification API.
Okay.
If you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further.
Uh, but I think with this one JPA is totally complete.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Attacks with Demo | Spring Security | CSRF, CORS, XSS, SQL Injection ---

Hey guys, and welcome to Concept and Coding.
And you already know that in Spring Boot I'm going to start Spring Security.
And to understand it better it's very much essential to understand the common attacks also.
Then only we would be able to understand the importance of spring security.
Okay, so in today's video I will cover very, very important topics with demo like how these attacks
happen and how we can protect them.
Like we can see that also in in detail spring security, how to protect these attacks.
But today let's understand what are these attacks, how it happened with a demo.
The first very important.
And sometimes it's asked in an interview also CSRF cross-site request forgery.
What does it do.
Just see this point.
First user is already authenticated to a site.
Okay let's say that you have one side something.
Let's say Dot com.
You are already authenticated.
Okay.
The CSRF attack tricks a browser into making unwanted requests to a site where user is already authenticated.
So what does it line says that.
So this means that this attack, what it does is that your browser.
So now let's say that for a minute.
This is a session based.
You can say that authentication your browser okay.
Your browser in your cookie has a session stored has a session ID is stored.
Now let's say that when you get some link click here.
And this is link is hosted by some attacker.
Like it's not from a genuine and you somehow attacker tricked you that hey click you click here, then
your doubts will get resolved or something.
And now you clicked here.
Now what happened is, with the help of this CSRF attack, what this attacker will do is it will make
an unwanted request to this site where your already authenticated and your browser will automatically
add the session ID while sending this request.
Okay.
So it will also send this cookie and this session ID browsers generally automatically adds it.
Okay.
This session.
So now when gmail.com request will come let's say it's for accessing some mail.
It will say that yes cookie this session this session is already valid and it will grant the access.
So you are totally unaware of this that hey only you click on this link.
This click is intend to do something else but in the background it initiated one request on your behalf
using and your browser There is adding your session.
So that's what it says, that CSRF attack tricks a browser into making unwanted requests to a site where
user is already authenticated.
Mostly applicable where state and session is managed.
So it's a like a stateful right or session is managed only in that.
So you know right.
There are two types stateless and stateful.
So generally this attack is mostly you can say that happen where state is maintained.
Your cookie in this your state session is maintained right.
So let me show you a demo of this one.
Just for demo purpose.
I'm using a spring boot only.
Don't worry about this.
We will discuss in depth when we will learn Spring Boot security.
But here you just need to concentrate on this.
Your server.
Let's say that your whatever the server you are running either Gmail or either anything bank anything
You have specifically mentioned that.
Hey, what?
No matter whatever the request is, you have to authenticate it.
Without authentication, no request should come to me.
Yes.
Good.
Right.
We have done that.
And you have an end point like where we have to do transfer money transfer, slash transfer.
And if this request get initiated, it will transfer the amount to whatever to whom you have mentioned.
Just a testing purpose.
So now what your expectation from this is like anyone who is calling this API is already authenticated
because I have put into that like any request, no matter any request should be authenticated, should
be authenticated.
Okay.
So now let's see this one.
Step one.
We will also see this in parallel.
What is the step one?
I am making a user authenticated on a server.
Now let's see that.
Now let's first try to get authenticated on a particular server.
So in this case I am running a server on my localhost.
Just assume that it could be anything Gmail Facebook Instagram where you are authenticated.
And we are for now assuming that it's a session based authentication means in cookies some session ID
would be stored.
So let me also open inspect element user and let me put a password.
Don't worry about this how I got this password.
We will cover this into spring security in depth.
So now let's say I am authenticated myself.
Sign in.
So what does happen is here.
If you see that when I try to do a login I got one session.
One session is attached or returned in the cookie and the same session is getting maintained by the
server also Now what is the second step?
Okay.
This see this on red in cookies.
In the response one session got added.
Now let's say that some malicious link to this user is received through email or through any other way,
or let's say just browsing some websites.
And he said said okay, got this link.
So what would happen?
So I have just created one basic HTML where what happen is whenever you click a link here internally,
it will call this transfer API which we have created right to transfer the amount okay.
But here if you see that I am not attaching any cookie or session that your browser will automatically
do okay, browser will add whenever any request is sent.
Send browser adds the session.
Okay so this is the HTML.
Now also let me open the inspect element.
Now just assume that you got some link through WhatsApp, through Gmail or through while browsing.
And somehow you click any malicious link see transferred to attacker.
And here if you see in the request, the session has been added, what is the session ME1N?
It should be the same as this 1MME1N.
So your browser adds the session whenever any request is made from like from your browser.
Okay, so that is where you can say that it's a CSR attack where attacker tricks your browser into making
unwanted requests where user is already authenticated.
I hope that clarifies.
Don't worry about this.
Uh, how this, uh, this one happening.
What I have written, we will see that into spring security.
But for now, you need to understand.
What is this attack?
Okay.
We have seen that in the attack.
Wherever the browser automatically adds the session, which is generally the same as what you got when
you were authenticated, because browser stores it in the cookie.
So how to get protected from the CSRF attack by using CSRF token.
So generally apart from the cookie, if you want to get protected from the CSF attack, there is something
called CSRF token also.
Okay.
So browser you can say that server returns the token in response also.
And this token is, you can say that known only to an authenticated legitimate source.
So as authenticate forms of website only append the CSRF token in the request.
Okay.
So if I am making if I am an attacker I am using this HTML.
I don't know what is the CSRF token, what value I need to put.
I don't know only those who are legitimate source.
They know what is the token and they will only append it so that your server knows that okay, this
request is coming from a legitimate source or not.
The second attack is XSS cross-site scripting.
Very very important.
Okay.
Understand it from a use case where you have a web page where considered as a.
Comments okay.
User one it's comments.
User two it's comments.
Now there is something called post.
You have to post something.
Okay.
And once you post it, it will also be shown here like I have posted.
Let's say my comment it will come.
So for now what exercise does is it allow attacker to put a malicious script into a web page viewed
by other user?
So now let's say that this is the web page.
If you come you also see the comments from different users and you can also post your comments also.
So what if you inside a post instead of writing, you put a script some and then a script would be stored.
Now any other user comes to this web page.
Comments would be shown by user one, user two, and also your comment where you have put a script.
So that script will run.
So commonly used for stealing the session or deform the website.
Okay, I will tell you how we will see a demo.
So for demo purpose I am creating two endpoints.
One is a Get call of this slash exists where it will.
What it will do is it will just load all the comments which are present.
Just return it.
Nothing else okay.
And also you will see that I am using controller not rest controller okay.
Why?
Because I want to render the page.
I want to render the page.
I will see you.
I will show you with an example.
What does it mean?
The second API is post slash comment.
What here?
What it will do is this you are allowed to post anything and that will store it in somewhere in the
DB or somewhere in memory.
And during get call that whole complete list would be shown.
Very simple.
And this is the code I have written.
very basic, so I have used at the rate controller.
And if you are following the Spring boot playlist, you know that.
What is the difference between controller and Rest controller?
Okay, since I am using controller, I am returning access as it will try to load HTML.
It will try to render it.
Okay, so there I have created one dot HTML.
Okay, so now here if you see this get endpoint is like just.
Whenever this is called it will just simply return all the comments.
All the comments.
Right.
Whatever we have and in the post I am just adding a comment.
Whatever the comment, I am coming.
See whatever the comments I am getting in a string directly, whatever the user is putting some script
or something I directly added into my list.
Okay, since in Spring Boot everything is a singleton, only one object is created.
So that's why even if you hit multiple times, it will get stored into this objects only.
Okay, so don't get confused.
Why?
Why not creating every time new object.
So anytime you add a new comment, it will keep on appending to this list.
Okay.
And during get it will simply return all the list.
Okay.
So now let's see.
Step one.
I am hitting slash x.
Okay so here it will render this page.
Here I am rendering this page.
Leave a comment.
And simply you are able to see whatever the script you want to put or comment you want to put.
You can see submit okay.
And all the comments will be shown here.
So let's see.
Okay so here if you see that leave a comment.
Now let's see I am an attacker and I have put script alert XSS attack some any just basic script.
Now once I call this and click on submit what would happen.
See?
Let's say attack happen.
There is a pop up comes.
Why?
Because your browser initiated the script itself.
Your browser initiated the script itself.
So when you click on submit, you first click the post API.
This is the post endpoint.
So means this comment got stored.
This comment got stored.
Now let's say any other any other user is coming and to this web page.
So definitely there is a get call happen slash access okay.
And it will load all the comments.
And as soon as this script comment get loaded your browser will execute it.
And this, uh, pop up comes now you will say that, hey, what's the problem in this?
So it's not, uh, like, harmful, right?
It's just a pop up.
Just assume that from this simple script.
What if I change to this one?
I am taking you to some attacker site and just say that this is the attacker link Uri.
You don't even know.
And in the request I just put document.cookie.
You know that now whatever the cookie is present in your browser will get to the attacker.
Now, attacker knows your cookie and this cookie only has your session ID.
Now, wherever you are authenticated where this session ID is applicable, attacker can access it freely.
Totally.
So it is not just like one pop up attack.
You can replace this inside instance.
Instead of simple alert you can change it to like this.
But for stealing your cookie.
Now attacker has your cookie your session.
You will lose the data or the security compromise.
So what shall we do to protect it?
So generally we have to do proper escaping the user input.
So wherever we are accepting the user input we don't know what user is entering.
So we have to take this special characters and we have to properly escape it.
Like this has to be changed to this okay.
So that browser don't treat it as any script which it has to run.
So it will be shown as it is like a string.
So you don't have to worry about that.
Your any script will run okay.
And you have to do proper validations.
What what values are allowed?
What values are not allowed in the like user can use.
So access is clear, right?
There is something called Cors also very important cross-origin resource sharing.
So first of all it's not an attack but more of a security feature which you can enable it or disable
it.
Okay, that it's a security feature that restrict web pages from making requests to different origin
unless allowed by the server.
So here, if you see that, first of all, what do you mean by different origin?
Different origin is like protocol plus domain plus port.
So let's say that for example this your client is sending this.
So this is your server okay.
And request can come from anywhere.
Some let's say that valid clients and some attacker also now server should tell that hey only these
are allowed.
If I get a request from these URLs then only allowed it.
Otherwise I will not entertain it okay.
So that's where like protocol, domain and port, all three should be defined.
So that server knows that.
Yes, only if there is a matching request coming from this, then only I will entertain.
For example, client is like https some local 8080 and your server is running on HTTP.
Again it is considered as a different origin, not the same origin.
If it is the same origin, it will no issues.
It will like from the same authenticated user.
Valid client only.
But the problem comes when the like different origin like.
So consider this as use case as a different origin because protocol is different.
Client is running on Https.
Server is running on HTTP.
Again it is considered as different origin.
So means here server has to allow the request from http localhost 8080.
Similarly, let's say port numbers are different.
Then.
Also it is considered a different origin.
Similarly, client is running on sub dot localhost, server is running on localhost.
Then again it is considered as different origin.
So in all these scenarios server has to specifically whitelist this.
So that request can be entertained from here.
And how you can do that by setting access control allow origin.
There is whenever you hit a request you will see this.
In this one we have to set.
So here just don't worry about this.
We will see into spring security.
But here if you see that I am allowing this one course configuration allowed origin list what all is
allowed.
I am putting here so allowed https localhost 9090.
I am allowing only this url for get post put delete purpose.
Okay, and this is the allowed header, so I will allow any request coming from this, but not from
this, but not from this.
So this way you can manage or you can say that it's a security feature.
Like you can say that consider this request like the first CSRF attack.
Okay.
So you can say that course can become the first security gate.
Maybe you CSRF token is required.
That is must.
Okay.
But you can say that this course can become a first line of defense, that if you are clicking on some
of the link and that server, the attacker server is running on some other, uh, different origin.
This is course become the first line of defense that it will not even entertain.
Okay.
Because server has only allowed requests from this itself.
And the last one is SQL injection.
In this one, attacker manipulates SQL query by inserting malicious input into the user field.
So I am creating a very, very simple here.
Let's say that search field.
Now whatever you put search let's say that uh cold drinks.
What if you are using this input and putting into query select asterisk from products where uh type
equals to and this whatever it is coming search value you are directly using whatever user is putting
into your DB query.
So here I can put some malicious, uh, you can say that query which can even like give me the data
which for which I am not even authenticated or even I can delete your DB also or get your DB table name
complete.
Right, so with SQL injection like your DB is not safe even I can get.
What is the table?
What are the column names?
I can delete it or I can access the unauthorized data also from the DB.
So in this example I'm showing this only very simple find API and I am using this.
Whatever the name is given by the user, I am directly putting into the query.
Okay, so now here if you see in my DB currently there are two users.
Okay.
And my query says that whatever the username comes only that would be written if a a a comes only,
that should be written.
But now let's say that what if I put hit the query like this slash find here.
If you see slash find now instead of name I am giving like this slash.
Or one equals to one.
Now directly it will replace here.
So what it will be like user underscore name equals to.
So first this will finish this.
Then it will append this or one equals to one.
And then you have this one which will complete this.
Now your query become this select asterisk from user details where username equals to this.
So it is empty or one equals to one become true.
So it will return all the values in the DB.
You you got it.
Like what happened here I put certain values which is not properly uh, you can say that validated and
used directly into the query.
And I manipulated it such that it returns me the complete data or unauthorized data.
We can also use it to fetch the DB name, table name, and you can also drop the DB also tables also.
So it's very, very important, uh, to get protected from SQL injection and how to protect it.
But we have already seen that in SQL when we covered Jpql right.
By parameterized query we can protect it.
So whatever the name is coming.
Don't use it as it is.
You have to use like this.
Parameterize it.
Okay.
So set parameters so that it would be like not as a considered as a query.
It will be considered as a value string okay.
And then you will get no data.
So because with this name slash or one equals to one nothing matched.
So.
It's safe now.
Okay guys any doubt let me know.
Uh, we'll discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring Boot Security - Part1 | Architecture ---

Share on this site.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in the first part of Spring Boot Security, we will be understanding its architecture.
Right.
But before we start, if you haven't gone through this video, kindly have a look.
Because in this one I have explained about different type of attacks, right?
CSRF, XSS, SQL injection I have also explained about cards.
So this will give you a better understanding like why exactly we want security.
Okay, so now I am assuming that you already know about this attacks.
Now we need to protect our resources from these attacks.
How we can do that?
Definitely we have to do authentication and authorization.
Authentication means verify who you are or you.
In simple terms, we can say that.
How I would say that.
Yes.
Hey, I am how I can tell I will provide my username and password something.
And I will tell somebody that yes, this is me.
So verify who you are.
Authorization is check what you are allowed to do.
So maybe I am authenticated, but I am only allowed to view but not allowed to update.
So that is the, uh, you can say that it's come under the scope of authorization check what only you
are allowed to do.
Even though you are authenticated, you are only allowed to view the page.
You don't allow to update it or make any changes.
Okay, so these two things has to be properly handled in our application so that we can protect our
customers from these attacks.
And yeah, that's where Spring Boot security comes into the picture.
Very very important.
And that's where we have to first understand its architecture before even we jump into different type
of authentication.
Also This is its architecture.
But here, if you see it's just an extension of this one.
Filters.
So in video number 18 we have already seen what are filters right.
And where exactly they fit.
So when the first request comes in it goes to the servlet container from servlet container to filter
chain.
There are multiple layers of filters.
Filter one.
Filter two.
Filter n okay.
And from this filter it goes to a particular dispatcher servlet and from dispatcher servlet, then interceptor
and then interceptor to actual the controller where our business logic lies or where our APIs are present.
So now spring security.
Where does it fit into this?
Now if you are already covered filters and you are clear with the filter chain Now whenever you enable
the spring security in your application.
Now here, if you see there is something called security filter chain, get added into your one of the
filter chain.
So you still have multiple filters in your application.
Filter one filter two filter n.
But one of the filter get also added which is security filter.
So security filter is generally we can say that security filter chain because there are multiple security
filters get added.
Okay.
Consider it is like here.
Consider it like this filter chain.
Here you have filter one.
Filter two filter three.
Like this filter n.
Consider this out of filter three to this one.
This is your security filter chain.
Like these filters are added because of security, because you opted for security.
And since you opted for security these filters will spring boot will add it.
Okay.
In the existing list of filters.
Okay.
So first thing is clear right where exactly the security filter chain fits.
It's just nothing.
But inside whatever the filter chain you have it just get fitted into that only.
So there are multiple filters.
Security filters.
Okay.
Now before I go further, like what are each of these filter.
There are different authentication method like form based where you provide username password.
You have like stateless one like basic authentication, JWT, OAuth okay.
And there could be many also.
So for each authentication method, for each authentication method there is a different filter involved.
Okay, so it's not.
So let's say what I'm trying to say is that maybe if you are opting this authentication method form
based, then only these two are eligible.
All are not eligible.
Okay.
Let's say you wanted to go with JWT.
Then it's maybe these two.
Let's say there would be some another JWT filter.
Let's say these two username password.
And these two only would be applicable then this and this would not be applicable.
Similarly, if you go with the basic authentication then this is not applicable.
This is not applicable only this is applicable.
So my point here to tell you that depending upon which authentication method you are choosing, which
we will see later based on that, that particular filter is get processed.
It's not like each request will go through this, then this, then this, then this.
Till then.
No.
Okay.
So if you are using basic authentication, then this will be skipped.
This will be skipped.
Only this will get executed.
Okay.
Don't worry about each of this filter as when we will do each and every authentication method.
We will understand its filter also.
Okay, but for now, try to understand the flow.
What happens when the flow comes in?
Now let's say a request comes in, it goes to the filter.
And since you are opted for security so it goes to one of the security filter also.
Now let's say it goes to one of the security filter.
Then what's the next step.
It will pass the request to authentication manager.
Now here if you see that in the authentication manager accept one parameter which is of authenticate
object Authenticate.
So this authenticate object is like contains multiple fields.
Again this is not the right time to dig deeper into each and every object.
We will see when we will do each and every authentication methods.
But for now understand like very high level.
What is the flow architecture.
Each authentication each authenticate object contains like is authenticated is authenticated.
True false okay.
So currently it's at this point of time it is false.
It's not authenticated.
What are the roles okay.
Currently it would be let's say empty.
I'm just saying.
So it is you can say that this authenticate object could be partial or incomplete at this point of time.
And it is not user is not authenticated.
So whenever the request comes in.
Yeah, it will pass to the filters and then it will pass through the security filter chain.
And depending upon the authentication method we are following, it will goes to one of the filter.
And the filter will create this authenticate object.
Currently it would be false.
It's not authenticated.
It will pass that request to authenticate manager.
Authenticate manager is an interface and provider manager is the implementation.
It's a default implementation.
Okay.
So what this provider manager or you can say that authentication manager does this has the knowledge
that my request is coming from this filter.
I have to pass it to which provider.
Which provider okay.
So you can say that it's a bridge between the filter and the provider.
So this provider manager get a request authenticate with authenticate object, which is currently partial.
It has the business logic which knows that okay, this is the filter and this is the authentication
method.
I need to pass it to this provider and it will delegate the authentication to one of the provider.
There are multiple providers.
It will delegate one of to the one of the provider.
For example if you are using username password or you can say that session based session or session
or you can say that stateful authentication method.
Then it will pass the request to authentication provider which takes care of username password and also
manage the user session.
Similarly, let's say if you are following stateless and processing JWT, then this provider manager
will delegate the request to which JWT authentication provider.
Similarly, if you are following OAuth, it will pass to or we will see that later when we will cover
each and every authentication method.
But at least at this point of time, we know that, okay, if the request comes filter chain, one of
the filter chain will get invoked.
This will pass the request to Authentication manager.
Authentication manager implementation is provider manager.
It's nothing but a bridge between filter and one of the provider which actually does the work or actually
does the authentication.
Okay.
For example, this Dao authentication provider like let's say username password okay.
User provide the username password.
So it actually does the work.
So this password is you know that spring always store the password in hashed form okay.
So now if whatever the password is coming from user it has to be encoded.
So it has proper integration with password encoder.
So raw password is hash during registration and during validation.
Raw password is hash and then only compared.
So this only takes care of all the logic now.
So it first do the hashing of the password.
Then it will fetch existing.
So you are passing currently.
Now a my password is x y z.
But previously when you created it you created x y let's say capital G.
So it has to fetch the existing details also.
Right.
So that will take care of it.
So it also has integration with user Detail service.
Again it's an interface.
User detail service has two flavor in-memory and JDBC user detail manager.
In-memory means all this username password is stored in memory okay.
So it's you can say that it's a temporary, but if you want to store it in the DB, you can use JDBC
User Detail Manager where the username and password is stored in the DB.
So it will load it and it will do comparison whatever user is now sending us and whatever we have received
earlier, are they matching or not?
Based on that, it will again return back with the authenticate object only, but now it will be complete
authenticate true.
False okay.
And ultimately authentication manager return back to the filter with the fully authenticated response,
whether it is authenticated yes or no.
And this filter, if it authenticated it will store the object into security context.
If authentication is false it will throw bad credentials.
But if it is fully authenticated, like yes, it this user is authenticated through this one of the
filter which uh which was invoked.
It stores that authenticate object into security context.
Now this security context will get added into your request goes into the dispatcher servlet.
If you have the interceptor it will go through the interceptor.
And ultimately it will reach to the controller your API.
So at this point of time, your API also has this security context.
One more thing I just want to highlight again, since we have multiple authentication method like form
based like basic authentication JWT, OAuth.
Consider this architecture as a template today, okay?
Because for each authentication method we will again draw this architecture.
But for each flow there would be some minor changes.
Okay.
Just for example for form based login okay.
You are doing certain extra steps here.
But let's say for basic authentication you are totally missing this step.
You don't need this step.
You don't need to put it.
So I am just giving you one example okay.
We will I don't want to jump into each authentication method.
What we are doing, what we are not doing.
But I'm just giving you one example that maybe depending upon each authentication method, we might
be doing one of the step, or we might be skipping or doing extra in this architecture itself.
So consider this architecture as a base, and for each authentication method we will run through this
base template or architecture itself.
Okay.
Which filter get invoked?
Which filter get skipped?
Why and which filter got invoked from this filter?
What exactly happened in the authenticate object?
Which provider got invoked?
What that provider does actually inside?
Okay.
What's the response or fully authenticate object looks like.
Okay.
And what else data we put into security context and what exactly the controller uses it like okay.
So we will connect the dots for each authenticate method later.
But for now just understand this is the flow.
When any request comes in and you have integrated the spring spring boot security in your application.
Okay, so in the spring boot or in your spring boot project, if your project is already present, which
we are already, this playlist is all going.
So I think by this time you already have set up the Spring Boot Project.
So you need to add the below dependencies.
Okay, so these two dependencies you can add one is spring boot starter security.
So this spring boot security dependency is like add feature like authentication authorization and the
filter.
So this filter chain will get included.
This all filter chain this authentication manager provider everything get included.
And there is something called spring session JDBC.
This is only required.
This is optional.
It's not mandatory.
This is only required if you want to maintain session based authentication.
And you want to store into the DB.
If you want to store into the ultimately DB then you need it, but we will see that when we will actually
do, uh, stateful stateful authentication.
So for now, you can you can say that you don't need it.
You only need this one.
But if you are setting up a new project in the spring initializer itself, you can set up spring web
and you can take spring security.
So with spring security you will get this okay.
And only if you want DB support, uh, for the session weights you can take it.
But again this is for now not required.
We will see when we will do state stateful authentication okay.
Now we will go ahead with each and every authentication method in depth considering this as a base architecture.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring Boot Security - Part2 | User Creation and Storing Username and Password ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to start the part two of Spring Boot Security.
So in the part one we have already seen about architecture right.
And we have to start understanding about the authentication method like form login, basic authentication,
JWT, OAuth.
So before we start all these authentication method we have to first understand its the first step.
You can say the user creation right.
Why?
Because before we proceed with user authentication and authorization like we have to first create the
user.
Right.
So that's this is the first step.
We can't skip it right.
We can't directly jump to the authentication method where we are authorizing user and authenticate user.
But first we have to create a user.
right?
So we have to first understand what is the best way.
Or you can say that the production level, if you have to create a user how it should be.
So let's see that.
Let's start that.
So yeah the first line says that authentication and authorization of user will happen only after user
is created.
So that's where this is we here we are.
That's why we are uh learning about it.
So let's see that what will happen when we add below security dependency.
As we see in the architecture video, we in the architecture video.
I told you that right.
We need to add this dependency, uh, for adding the spring boot security filters and all.
Now let's say that we have added it and if we start our application what would be the behavior?
What would happen?
So if you start the application and you will see the logs.
I have just started the server, nothing else.
I have added the dependency okay and I have started the server.
So while starting the server, if you see the logs you will see one thing is using generated security
password.
Some password got created.
And there is one more thing to consider is it says that using in-memory user detail manager.
What exactly happened here?
What does it mean?
So what actually happening here is when we are starting the server user is created automatically.
Spring boot security automatically create a user for us with default username is user okay.
And it creates a random password okay.
It create a random password which get printed here in the logs.
Okay.
So each time server is restarted.
New random password will get generated.
Each time server is restarted, a new password will get generated.
And this like you username would always be user and password would be.
This is like random every time which would get printed here.
So how if you see this code this is the spring framework code.
There is a class called Spring properties dot Java.
Inside that there is a static user class.
If you see it properly you will see default username is user.
Password for the default username is Uuid universal unique identifier some random Uuid it take it role
is empty.
Okay So this is the first it create that.
Now after that there is a user detail service auto configuration dot Java.
There is some configuration class which creates bin.
So that's one bin is present where is creating an object of in-memory user detail manager.
Actually what it is doing is this class or this bean.
It stores this user.
And the password which we have got, the username is user and the password is some random.
This one right.
Somewhere it has to be stored.
Okay.
So that's where this bean which it is calling in-memory user detail manager.
User details manager.
So it is managing the user details.
User detail is nothing but a username and password and it is putting in memory.
So ultimately it will store in some kind of a in memory that okay this is the username and this is the
password.
Later on you can fetch it.
So here if you see this in memory user detail manager what it is doing.
Is it the parameter it accepts as a security properties.
This one only.
Okay.
From this it will get the user.
So this is security property dot user this class.
So it has default username default password.
Now what it does is it creating an object of in-memory user detail manager.
And now it is converting from this user.
It is converting to another user.
Okay.
So it is you can say that uh it is doing a mapping.
So user dot username it put a username it put a password it put a roles and it build it.
So once it get a in-memory user detail manager so what it will do It will call its constructor.
Right now here, if you see in memory user detail manager its constructor.
So it got this user details.
So this is where it does doing a mapping right.
Security property dot user.
It is mapping it to user details.
User details user details is an interface and its implementation is I think user okay.
So here in the object constructor of this in-memory user detail manager, it is accepting this parent
user details.
Okay.
And here it is actually creating an object for this one user.
It is creating a user object this one.
So with username with password with roles it read out the information from security property dot user
to this one.
It fill it and it calls new in-memory user detail manager.
Ultimately it will call its constructor inside a constructor what it will calling create user.
Now here if you see create user, how what it is doing it is putting users dot put username.
And here all the user details.
And here if you see users this is final.
So you know that in spring boot each class by default is singleton.
And this is the final.
So no matter how many requests would come only one object would be created.
So they will all share this users map.
So that's where it is in memory.
It is storing in memory.
So whatever the user when you started the server.
So username which is user and the password this Thus ultimately it gets stored into in-memory inside
here.
Okay.
That's your here.
You see that in-memory user detail manager who is managing this.
Okay.
So one thing is clear right now.
One thing should come to your mind at this point of time.
Hey, like random user name or like user and random password, it's okay for testing purpose.
But again how I can control this so that in production at least we can use it because, uh, let's say
that I want to add a custom user name, custom user custom password.
I want to add it.
So definitely this question would comes to your mind that how can we control the user creation logic
instead of spring boot creates a default username and password for me.
Okay, so that's where different approaches come.
So this is the first approach using Application.properties.
Again not recommended only for development and testing.
So in Application.properties you use this spring dot security dot user dot name.
You give whatever username you want it to give.
I give my underscore username, then spring dot security, dot user dot password.
Whatever the password you want to give.
You can give it here.
And then spring dot security dot user dot roles.
What are the roles you wanted to give.
Give it here.
So what actually it will do is internally it will use reflection and call set username and set password
method of security properties and override the default values.
So in security properties right.
It has a name user password.
Random right.
And it also has getter and setter.
So ultimately Spring Boot will call those.
Setter methods.
And it will override the name password and rolls you through reflection.
And when you start an application now, you will see that no default username and password is created.
Here if you see server is started and after that you now you have a user whenever you wanted.
Uh login.
This is the username you can use.
This is the password you can use.
But again this is just for development purpose.
It is not recommended at all to use it production.
But okay.
Second thing is now again, before we move to the second part, what?
What?
Give us a more curious that we have to go to second.
Like first question again comes to me, is that okay?
What if I want to create more than one user?
Then how to do it?
Okay, yeah, we can do that.
But through application dot properties only one you we can create.
But if you have to create more than one there is a second way also we can use.
But with this one we can.
You can say that we will get lot more information.
We will understand like how actually it's internal working also Up by creating the custom in-memory
user detail manager bin.
So currently if you see.
The default behavior first.
Here what happen is.
Security property dot user object is created which has default user and password.
Okay then it tried to.
Create an object of.
Internal memory user detail manager.
And when it creates a object of it, it accepts the user detail.
The user which has username password roles and ultimately it put into the cache okay.
And in the 2.1 it put into cache.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that if we have to create more than one user.
So here if you see one thing, the in-memory user detail manager can accept more than one users.
So can we.
Can we take the responsibility of creating a.
Object of internal or not internal in memory.
This is in memory.
Can we take the responsibility of creating an object of in-memory user detail manager?
If yes, we can create an object of it.
Like instead of this we can create and we can pass as many user we want it, okay.
We know that the user, it accepts the user details so we can create as many users we wanted.
That's what I am going to do now.
So here if you see just to showcase that in memory user detail manager it's a child of user detail manager
which is again a child of user detail service.
Okay.
So here I am writing one configuration.
We have already know how to write it.
We have already seen that in previous lectures.
I am creating one bean.
Now I am creating.
And bean of user detail service.
User detail service.
Why?
Because I don't want to put exact in memory user detail manager.
You can do it.
But generally it's always recommended that use the parent one.
Okay.
So in memory user detail manager is a child of user detail manager which again is a child of user detail
service.
So that's where I am using this.
And we know that in memory user detail manager class.
Right.
Write it.
Accept multiple user details.
You see that three dots here.
So we can pass multiple users to it.
Okay.
And that's what I am doing it.
So first I am creating one user details.
Okay I pass the username password roles and build it.
Similarly second and I am now taking the responsibility of creating its object because I want it in
memory, right?
Now here I am creating a specific object, right?
This is just an interface.
We can't create an object of it.
This is the concrete class.
We can create an object of it.
So here I am creating an in-memory user detail and passing more than one object.
So now it will create two users in the map okay one with my underscore username one another is my underscore
username to an object where has complete information about this users.
Okay.
But again so it's like a chain like of asking questions.
Now you have seen this.
If you notice one thing in the password, I have written no OP and then given my password, my password
one.
And here for the second user I written no OP and then give the password 1234.
What does this no op mean, why I use it and what different values it can take.
Okay.
So now let's see that the no op means that no encoding, no hashing in this in memory or wherever the
data like currently we are storing in memory.
Let's say that if you want to store in DB, no matter what would be the storage point.
No OP means that the password is not even encoded, not even hashed.
It is like in a plain text.
Plain text.
No hashing happened.
No encoding happened.
Nothing.
Okay, so here the default format for storing the password default.
I am saying the default format for storing the password is like this id like this id and your encoded
password.
Here above I uses no OP.
So this become my ID and your encoded password.
So no OP means that not even encoded not even hash.
So just plain text.
So 01234.
Is my password okay?
But apart from no OP, we can also use if you want to do a one way hashing.
Very secure.
We can use Bcrypt.
Or if you want to use Sha256 algorithm you can use that also.
Okay so there are multiple you can say that hashing algorithms present which we can use it okay.
So now what how exactly this work.
We also need to understand right.
We know that okay the default format for storing the password anywhere is this.
But how why how come is this working.
Like why why I need to put before my password.
Okay.
So see the flow.
Understand the flow I will tell you example.
But first read this three lines.
What would happen During, let's say, user password storing step, we are storing the, let's say in
a in memory or DB.
We are storing the user detail username and the object complete object where it has username password,
role everything.
We want to store user password without any encoding or hashing.
Then we know that we have to use this ID no op and we have to store like this no OP 123 for plain password.
Now what would happen during.
So let's say that I have stored it just for a one moment.
Assume that I have stored like this in a DB or in memory.
Now during authentication process, what will happen during authentic.
Now this is stored in your DB.
Now you are trying to authenticate user.
User is providing its username.
My username is username underscore one.
My password is 1234.
User will not pass no OP right.
It will just say that plain.
My password is 1234.
So during authentication process what would happen?
Step one it will spring boot framework fetch the user password from in memory.
Based on this username it will let's say check its in memory or DB it know that okay this is the username.
It will fetch out the object where it has a password.
Let's say password is stored like this.
We have stored like this.
Second it now has to compare what the user has provided to us 123, four and what we have already stored.
Correct.
So it goes for the comparing logic.
But before comparing, the third step is it will first read out what is the id.
So here it is.
Say that no OP.
Now Spring boot knows that okay no OP means that whatever the.
password is stored.
It is not even encrypted, not even hashed.
So it has to directly compare what is coming from user directly coming.
What is user is sending.
But let's say that for a second.
If in memory or db, it is this bcrypt.
And let's say that a, b, C12, three some in the hash form it has stored.
Now user is passing 1234.
So how the spring framework knows that.
How to compare this two.
So what it will do is first it will read out this ID.
Now it will uh separate this one.
One is Bcrypt and now it has ABC12, three.
Now it knows that okay, the password which I have stored in my DB or in in-memory is hashed form and
it is hashed via Bcrypt algorithm.
Now what it will do is that whatever the password, which user is passing.
It will also hash it using Bcrypt and whatever the output comes, then only it will compare it.
Okay, so that's how.
The ID is stored.
Or you can say that that's how the format for storing the password is like this.
Okay.
So this is the step now here if you see in the password encoder.
This is the default password encoder delegating password encoder.
This is the default.
Its work is to delegate to other password encoder based on ID.
Okay, so we have different, uh, password encoder, like bcrypt.
No, OP there could be other 256 password encoder different.
But the first, if you are not using directly like hey I want use this if you are not telling specifically
what it will do is spring security framework.
First pass this to delegate password encoder.
This password encoder work is that whatever the password we have stored it.
First try to look for the ID and based on that ID it will delegate to a appropriate encoder.
Okay.
So that's why I am passing the password like this here.
I hope that's clear.
But again it's a chain right of a question.
Let's say if you want to store the hash part password.
Then how you would do that?
Just see that again.
I am creating a bean okay.
Bean of user detail service.
This is an interface.
Ultimately, I'm creating an object of a concrete class in memory user detail manager.
I am passing it at one user details object.
I am creating it.
Username.
Password.
Role and building it.
Now here if you see the password, I am how I am storing it as Bcrypt.
First I have added the id and then using this encoder and I'm encoding it my plain password.
Okay.
And ultimately in DB it will be stored in a hashed format.
Now even if user passes 1234 spring security framework will take out it will goes to delegating password
encoder first.
Okay.
And delegating password encoder will, uh, take out this ID.
It will know that.
Okay.
Uh, this is the password encoder which I have used.
And then ultimately it will pass to that particular encoder to do a, uh, like whatever the user has.
Password.
Right.
One two, three, four.
It will first do encoding using this and then ultimately match it.
Because this is hash, right.
One way.
It can't just uh, change again back to like what what I provided my password underscore one.
It's a one way, uh, you can say the hashing is one way, whatever the like a, b c x y z .21, two
three.
So it's a one way, uh, hashing.
So whatever the user passed, only that can again be hashed.
And then compare those two hash.
Okay.
So just here see an example that I have shown an example I am giving username one and I am giving the
password.
The password I am giving.
Like this okay so here if you see username and the password plain password I am giving.
But still I am able to authenticate and properly able to access the API.
Why?
Because even though I have stored in the DB in the hashed form, why?
I told you right it first hash this also.
Okay, but by which algorithm that delegating password encoder will decide based on the id and it will
pass it.
So first whatever the password which I am passing, it will hash it and then match it.
And if it get matched I will get access.
Now again, one question should comes to your mind.
Hey, if you don't want to store Bcrypt or any other hashing algo in front of password, this doesn't
look good.
Like if somebody is checking my DB or in memory, if a password like it says that bcrypt and then some
password know of some password or something Sha256 some password I don't want to store in that way.
Like is there any way we can do that?
Yes, we can do that.
So currently I told you that by default spring boot use delegating password encoder because spring doesn't
know which password encoder to use.
Okay.
Whatever the password you have used while defining it will go to that encoder.
But if you specify the one encoder to spring security, it will directly goes to that encoder itself,
it won't goes to delegation, so we don't want to store it.
So that's what I am doing it.
So in the same configuration now I just added one more bin for password encoder okay I am just creating
this is an interface password encoder is an interface.
I am just saying that hey whenever password encoder is used, always create an object of Bcrypt password
encoder.
I always need bcrypt.
And if you see now when I'm creating a user, I created a username.
Now the password I am don't need to put at the rate bcrypt.
It's not required because whenever any encoding or hashing is required, or whenever the user will enter
a password, 123, four automatically request will goes to the password encoder no matter what it will
get hashed and then only it will get compare.
Okay, because I have specifically mentioned I am using this password encoder.
Got the difference?
But again one question comes to your mind that okay, I got it.
How I can create multiple users in my system okay.
And uh various password encoder and the flow.
But still this is not recommended for production like in production.
I can't have this, uh, default username and password.
Okay.
And also in production, I can't store the details in in memory.
I have to store in DB, right.
First thing is I have to store it in DB and in DB my password should be hashed properly.
Correct.
And it should be dynamic.
I should not have stored static username and password.
That's where the third approach.
Or you can say the third way of creating a user comes in and which is recommended for production.
Okay, based on my understanding.
So if you if you understand this basic flow.
This one, what we are doing, then it's very easy to write a code for this one.
The one we are going to see.
Uh DB approach.
Just see here that what I am doing.
The first is I am creating my own entity because now I want to store a DB, I want to take a control
like what the data should go into my DB.
So I am creating one entity user auth entity dot Entity Java okay.
It's an entity.
The table name I have given as user underscore auth and I have making it as a child of user detail.
Why?
I would tell you, but for the first step just say that I have created an entity okay.
Where I have like id username password roles.
Okay.
So this four columns I required okay.
There are certain here if you see overwrite comes in that is because we have I am implementing this
user detail interface.
Now you can ask me that.
Hey okay I understand that we want to store the username and password in db.
For that we are creating a table.
But why we have to implement this user details.
What is the requirement for that one.
So before that one, let me tell you that what happened.
First step is user created.
Okay.
When the user is created let's say in DB or in memory, we have user name and we have password okay.
That's the first step.
Second step is authentication where we are using let's say form or basic or JWT.
So now all these authentication method, what we do is we have to fetch.
The first step is fetch the user.
We have to fetch the user.
Right.
And this user we have to fetch is like spring framework goes and fetch.
So it will goes and fetch, whether it's a DB or in memory.
Wherever the user we are storing it, it has to fetch the user.
Okay.
And once it is passed the user, the return type of this is user details.
Okay.
And the same thing if you see it.
Here in memory where we are storing it we are storing it.
The user.
The user is nothing on object of user details okay.
So here it's that's why.
So we have to be consistent what we actually wanted to store in our DB also.
Right.
So that's why it becomes easy that we have a we don't have to do mapping like what we are getting and
what spring boot required.
I can directly use user auth entity.
I don't have to do a mapping.
Like whatever the data I am getting from user auth entity, I have to map it to user data.
Now since user auth entity I make it as a child of user detail.
Okay, so during framework spring framework wherever it is required user details.
Right.
If I am returning user auth entity it will work and you will understand soon.
But for this is what I have written here because during authentication different method security framework
try to fetch the user and return the object of user detail only if you don't implement it.
If you don't implement it, then we have to do the mapping from user entity to user detail.
I will show you the place where we have to do the mapping also.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that we have to override all these things, that is account not expired?
Is account not logged credential not expired.
Currently I have default return.
True.
Yes.
Not expired.
Not logged.
Everything is good, but in production we have to give a specific implementation.
Maybe you will need to require more columns.
Also let's say account not expired.
Your company logic would be that account not expired logic based should be based on date okay or current
date.
Password is stored okay and it should not.
If it is more than 90 days then it is like let's say I have to say expired.
So you might be storing date also.
And here you will write a comparing logic between current date and the date the password is stored.
And see if it is more than 90 days.
You return password expired true.
Or if it is not expired, return false.
Something like that.
I hope you got it.
So this All these methods returns.
Or you can say that.
You can implement this logic based on the custom logic which you want or custom requirement.
You can add more columns based on that.
You can write a logic on this is account is logged or not credential expired or not like this.
But the one thing is we have to create an entity like what all columns we required in a DB.
And that's where what I have created it.
And I have created a child of user details which I have told you why.
The second is created a repository for this entity.
We have to create a repository again, we have already seen this JPA repository and I have written one
method find by username.
You already know that in the previous video in the JPA, I have already told you how this worked.
Spring boot would automatically create a query for me because find by its sees that right?
So it will automatically create a Select query for me where it will put username equals to this.
So I have written find by username.
Now here if you see the third I have to I have written one service class user auth entity service class.
And now here if you see notice also I have implemented it user detail service.
You might ask again why.
Again?
If you see the flow during user creation you don't need it.
User creation you don't need it.
In user creation we store in DB or in memory username password.
But during authentication it is required.
In future it might require during authentication.
Spring framework first try to fetch the user From.
Or in memory.
For in memory it knows how to fetch it.
But for DB it don't know how to fetch it.
Which table it I have to fetch it from.
So we have created the table and we have written that.
Okay, uh, in this service class I am writing this method which ultimately fetch the detail.
But how?
Spring framework knows that like I have to use this method.
So that's where I am implementing user detail service.
You know right.
User detail service.
Then we have user detail manager and then we have in-memory user detail manager.
So we have seen that right user detail service which is the parent interface.
And then we have user detail manager.
And at the bottom we have in-memory user detail manager.
So now I am creating that Hey, I am creating one more service which is user auth and user auth, entity
service or user auth service something I am creating this class.
Okay.
And whenever you have to fetch the user you don't have to go to in memory.
You can come to me user auth entitymanager.
That's why I have created a child of User Detail manager.
So I have keep it in parallel to in memory.
Okay.
And it has to override this method so that spring framework because Spring framework already calling
this one load user by user name.
So now ultimately since we have implemented this method will get invoked.
So now load user by username.
And uh we know that how to fetch it.
We have our repository.
We will use it repository.
And we call find by username and we will return it now here if you see that I what I am returning user
auth entity.
I am not returning user details.
Okay.
I am not returning.
So here if you see.
In memory user detail manager okay.
So there would be um just go to here.
This is the parent interface.
I am implementing this load user by user name.
What is the return type?
User details okay.
And this is what Spring Frameworks invokes it to fetch the username during authentication.
I'm saying during authentication not during storing.
During authentication it first has to fetch the data from DB or in memory.
Right.
So it will call this.
Now the return type is user detail.
If I have not implemented this.
If I have not done this Then would I be able to return just user or entity?
No.
Then first I have to do mapping.
What I would receive as a user auth entity to user details object and then returns user details.
But since I have created as a child implements user details.
That's why I am directly returning this and it is acceptable now.
Okay.
So what?
Till now, what we have done is we have created a table where we are going to store the username password.
We have created a repository and we are creating a service class.
Okay.
Because Springboot during authentication might not know how to fetch from the DB, it knows how to fetch
from in-memory.
But for DB don't know how to fetch it.
So we are telling we are writing implementing this load by username, we are fetching it from which
table we have to fetch and we are returning it.
All good.
Now we can just write controller.
Last step.
So now here if you see I am writing this slash auth slash register API.
Okay.
User can give username password.
Now what I am doing is before even storing into the DB before I am calling this service dot save class.
Save method.
This I am hashing the password so I am using password encoder dot encode user details dot get password.
So what it will do is it will encode whatever the user is sending me the plain password right.
So I'm getting that plain password and encode it.
Okay.
Like whatever the algorithm which we will decide.
And using that algorithm, it will now update the password here in the same object.
And then ultimately I'm going to store it okay.
And which encoder we have to use.
We can tell into our spring security configuration.
I have told that I want to use Bcrypt password encoder.
So it will use that encoder and encode my password and override whatever the plain password user is
passing.
And then I will save it.
Right now one last question should have comes to you that okay, Shreyansh this API auth and register
at this API, we are saying that user can dynamically add their username And password.
Okay.
And we will store it in DB.
We will store it into DB.
Okay.
But how user would be able to invoke it by default in spring security, each and every API is authenticated.
Means for each API you have to provide a username and password.
But this is the first step itself where we are creating the username password itself.
We don't have username password.
Yes to authenticate it.
So what to do.
We have to bypass the authentication for this API.
So in the same if you see.
There is a security filter chain.
I will come into more depth when we start the authentication methods okay.
So different security filter chain comes.
So we will override.
So now here if you see I am saying that request any request which matches this slash or slash register
permit it don't do any authentication apart from any request authenticated.
So what ultimately I am doing is I am bypassing.
Or you can say that skipping this API slash or slash register, right.
No authentication would be executed for it.
Apart from it.
For rest of the API's authentication is required.
And this is industry standard.
Okay.
So when this API is got invoked username would be stored.
Let's say you one password would be stored in the Bcrypt format.
Let's say XYZ123 something roles would be stored.
What would be given like this and some ID okay.
And during when authentication happens any authentication happens.
Spring framework we will see the flow.
But the spring framework first has to fetch this username.
Right.
We have provided it like spring frameworks.
We have provided like overrided this user details service.
So ultimately this method would get invoked.
This method will goes to user auth entity repository.
It knows that how to fetch it from user auth entity from this okay.
And it will return it.
Simple.
Okay.
So I hope this is clear.
And uh we can see that also.
Let's see.
So in this one I have skipped the auth register part.
I am starting the server.
Okay.
Let's say that I am trying to login but there is no user present currently.
Let's say UU1123.
Does any such user exist?
No.
So we are creating like you.
One.
Two.
Three.
Let's say this is the same username password I wanted to create.
First I send it like user registered successfully.
I am no authentication required for auth register API.
Now I am providing here again you 1123 sign in.
Now I am able to login.
Okay so and if you check the db in db you can see that the password is stored like this.
See dollar two a and all this thing how in the Bcrypt encoding hash manner it is stored.
But I hope user creation process is clear.
And even if somebody asks like uh, what's the recommended way to create a user in, uh, production,
I think we now have the answer also.
Okay, guys, any doubt we can discuss more?
But thank you very much.
Bye.

--- Spring Boot Security - Part3 | Form Based Authentication ---

Hey guys on this side.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today let's start with our first authentication method that is form login authentication.
So um in the previous video we have already seen how we can create a user dynamically.
And what is the industry standard.
So this is the very base of you can say that the authentication method before we I know that we eagerly
wait that okay, let's why not directly jump to JWT which is very very frequently used nowadays.
But to understand JWT also, we need to first understand what was previously popular, what were the
disadvantages, how it was working, and then only while understanding a JWT and OAuth it would give
us a better sense.
Okay, what advantage they are adding.
Okay, so let's not skip this and let's understand this.
Like it would be a uh, like very good interesting.
Uh, you would get to know a lot of things.
In 2015.
I used to work a lot in this, but now, yes, uh, it may be very used.
Limited purpose.
Okay, so let's start without wasting any further time.
So form login authentication.
It's a stateful authentication method.
Stateful means your server is maintaining a state of a client okay.
Server maintains a user authentication state AKA also known as session.
So server maintains the session so that user don't have to provide username password every time with
each request.
So in this what we have appended, you have a client or let's say that user and you have a server.
So first time only it provide username and password.
At this point of time server create a session and stores it.
Okay.
Now also send this session back.
Hey, this is your session now.
For all the subsequent requests, the client do not provide username and password.
It just provide the session.
It just provide the session and server validate the session.
If it is validate the request has been processed successfully.
If the session is not valid, whatever the session ID is provided by the client.
If it is not valid or not found, the request is not entertained.
Okay, so that's what it means.
So that user do not have to provide username password with each request for.
With each request, they provide a session so user enters their credential in an HTML login form.
This is for the first time on successful authentication.
A session is created to maintain the user authentication state across different requests.
Okay, so server is the one who creates a session and stores it.
Okay.
And also in the response it send.
Now with subsequent request, client passes this session ID not username and password.
Very important it do not pass username and do not pass username and password.
It only passes the session ID and server validates it with the session ID which is stored internally.
Okay, so I'll tell you we will see with an example.
And also see this one why it is important.
It's it is a default authentication method of spring boot security.
So if anybody asks you like uh what is the default authentication method.
Is it JWT.
No.
Still, form based authentication is the default authentication method.
So if you have to use JWT we have to manually tell hey use JWT.
Otherwise if you don't tell the spring boot, consider it as a form authentication method.
I will tell you where it is.
Are defined as like it is a default.
Also there are default URL of a login and logout.
So login URL is slash login slash logout.
So what is this like.
So the first URL where we have to provide username and password right.
So it has a default URL is login okay.
And once your session is created once your session is created okay.
It is valid for a particular amount of time.
We will see that.
But let's say that you have to invalidate the session before that time.
You can call logout slash logout.
So these are the default URL which are provided by spring boot.
For the form based login.
You can use this.
When you use this login you can provide username password.
Your session would be created.
And if you call logout your session would get invalidated.
Okay we'll see that.
So this is the default login logout URL.
Now one first thing comes to our mind that hey, what is session and when does it create it?
So this is one basic flow.
I am showing you this is your client could be your browser and this is your server.
The first endpoint they hit is login slash login which is also a default one okay.
With this one they will provide username and password.
Okay.
So when this happened what server will do.
It will create a new HTTP session.
So this is one object.
It creates a new object.
This object is HTTP session object okay.
It it contains various information like what is the session ID okay when the session was created.
And its expiry time.
Okay etc. there are lot more information.
We will see that.
So it so it creates a HTTP session and provide one session ID and saves it in the servlet.
Okay.
We can also save it in the DB also.
But by default you can say that it's in memory like it's in the servlet itself.
Like Tomcat, if you are using Tomcat, it's an insider.
You can say that Tomcat or you can say the in-memory Ram.
So this object is stored, created and stored in a servlet also.
Now once the authentication happens username password authentication happens servlet session object
is created.
The response in the response in the return it set the cookie.
Also in the cookie the session ID it will put the ID this session ID okay.
So it returns that now your session is now on.
Okay.
Currently it is active state.
Now for any further request from the client.
Now they are not passing you username.
Password.
Okay.
They might be calling slash users or slash anything.
Okay.
They are just passing in the cookie session ID and what is the session ID is the one which was received
previously.
Now once it get server get it.
What it will do is it will search for HTTP session object with the ID this one.
If there is an active session, it will find it.
Yes, it fetches it okay.
If it is found if the HTTP session object is found and if it is valid it is not expired.
It will fulfill the request.
It will entertain the request whichever it is coming.
But if the HTTP session object is not found or it is not valid already expired.
It will redirect it to login page.
It will redirect it to the login page.
Okay.
So that it has to re authenticate themselves.
So this is generally known as when we say that session.
This is known as.
Yeah a session has been created means it is maintaining the user authentication state.
Yeah.
User is still valid.
Uh any request which comes in.
Yeah.
Uh, we can fulfill that request okay.
So by default, time to live for the HTTP session is 30 minutes.
So this object which created right HTTP session object by default it is 30 minutes.
But depends upon uh servlet.
Right.
If it is a Tomcat servlet container you are using then it is 30 minutes.
But I would say that it depends upon the servlet container which one we are using.
Also we can configure it to.
If you don't want 30 minutes you want like okay I want only five minutes.
We can change that also.
We'll see that.
And we can also store the HTTP session in DB also.
So currently I told you that by default it will store in memory.
Right.
But we can also make sure that it can store in the DB because it is possible that we have many server
server one, server two okay.
If they are storing in memory the session and if this is a client, this is your client.
If the client request goes here, yeah.
Session object is present in memory.
It would be able to fulfill the request.
But what if the next time client request goes to the server two.
Now server two don't have the session okay.
Then it will ask client to Reauthenticate.
Hey first login.
Okay, so it would be a bad user experience.
So generally in that case in DB it has been this session has been stored in DB.
This session has to be stored in DB so that no matter client request goes to whichever server.
From there they can query the DB phase, the session whether it's valid or not, and fulfill the request
based on that.
Okay, so see this first in application dot properties I am setting server dot servlet dot session dot
timeout.
So this is you can change this one I have changed it to one minute okay.
By default it's 13 minute.
And I will change it to one minute.
Now if there is no activity from the user side for one minute, then in one minute this session object
will get expired.
Just see what I am saying.
No activity so only after one minute of inactivity makes the session expired.
But now let's say it's 1201.
Okay, now you are expecting that by 1202 my HTTP session will get expired.
If there is no activity.
But let's say that user made a request at somewhere in mid.
Okay, so this expiry time will increase.
Okay so it required a one minute of inactivity.
Total inactivity.
So this would when when it was last used when the last activity happened.
From there it will again count okay.
Inactivity of one minute.
Then only HTTP session will get expired.
So that's what what I have written.
If user activity keep on happening, it will keep on authenticating and after one minute session will
not get expired.
Internally, what it will do is when I say that it will keep on authenticating Authenticated me internally.
It will keep on increasing the expiry time.
Okay.
And second, I told you that we can store the HTTP session in DB.
So it's a very, very simple way.
If you see that we need this dependency, which I told you that uh, in the first architecture video,
also, I told you, uh, for the spring security, like we can have this session spring session JDBC
in the pom.xml and in Application.properties.
We can provide this three configuration.
This configuration spring dot session dot JDBC dot initialize hyphen schema equals to always means we
are telling spring boot that hey, you create me the table.
You create the session table for me.
I don't want to create table myself.
You go ahead and create a table.
So here, if you see Spring Boot will automatically create a table for me.
Spring underscore session table for me.
Okay.
And I have told servlet dot session dot timeout five minutes.
So after five minutes of inactivity my HTTP session should get expired okay.
And this will like uh, just tell that we are going to store the in the state of in-memory.
We are using DB.
So here if you see that this is the table which Spring boot will create, this is primary ID, this
is the session ID which was created.
What when this session created last access time.
Maximum inactive interval 300 expiry time.
So based on the last access time it will just keep on add 300 and it will keep updating the expiry time
okay.
And this is principal name is nothing but a username.
So this expiry time will keep on increasing.
If user keep on sending requests based on the last access time.
Okay, so here, if you see that my session is now stored into the DB instead of in memory.
So at this point of time, I hope that at least we are clear.
What is form login authentication okay.
And when we are saying it is a stateful authentication means it is maintaining a session.
And what is session actually.
Okay.
So since we are clear with what is session now let's understand that flow diagram of form based authentication
method.
Very very important.
And also by this point of time you get to know that it involves two step.
First step is login where user provide a username password okay.
And through that we create a session.
Second is Request, like accessing the resource.
Or you can say that request or accessing the resource where whatever the session comes, it will add
the session.
And at this point of time, it will validate the session and fulfill the request.
Okay.
So now let's understand end to end flow for this form based authentication method.
And let's see that if we have to implement it what is required.
Do we need to do anything.
So first step currently there is no session.
Active user is login for the first time means session do not exist.
At this point of time only user exists means and also you already know that in the previous video I
have already told that how to create user okay dynamically.
Also for in for testing the form based authentication, I have created a static one, but you know that
how to create dynamic one but user has to be there.
So assume that we have already present user.
We have username password already present user exist.
Now what the first step user trying to do is calling the API slash login.
This is the default login page form login page which provide okay, we don't have to code for this one.
Spring boot automatically provides right?
Uh, for the form based authentication.
So when you hit this API it will ask for what is the username.
What is the password.
Okay.
So we already know that.
What is the username and password.
We already have seen the previous video I have given I have created.
This is my user and this is the password.
And I click sign in.
So here if you see that username goes password goes and CSRF token goes.
Okay.
So now what happened in the back.
What happens when this submit has happened?
So now call comes to one of the security filter chain.
As soon as you click sign in okay this username password comes to this security filter chain.
Now see understand slowly what would happen.
This is the chain security filter chain.
And this is the first filter which will get invoked.
Username.
Password authentication filter.
Okay.
So now here the flows happen.
So this is the first step which it will do.
It will create and pass the authentication object to Authentication Manager.
So it will create an authentication object.
Authentication object is nothing but this object username password authentication token.
It is nothing but a child of authentication class authentication class.
So it is just a child of it.
So we are creating an authentication object.
So it has your principal which is nothing but a username credential right.
It is protected currently authenticated is false.
It is not yet authenticated.
And no other details present only this much username password.
That's what we are getting currently from the request.
Now it passed to the authentication manager.
And we know that in the architecture video.
I have already told you this authentication manager delegate the request to one of the provider so it
will delegate it to Dao authentication provider.
Okay.
Now what it will do.
So currently we have username and password coming.
So this password if you see currently it's not hashed form.
So it first call password encoder.
Okay.
And encode or hash this password whatever the incoming incoming raw password is hashed first okay.
So that is done.
After that.
What it does is it will fetch the user details either from in-memory or DB.
We have already seen in the previous video.
What's the logic behind it, how it is done.
Okay, so it fetch the user detail.
We have a username right?
Based on the username it will fetch the user details.
So user is already created.
So it will get what is the username.
What is the stored hashed password.
What are the roles user has.
So all this information it will get.
After that it will do.
It will validate the incoming username and password okay.
And this password it has also done the hashed okay.
So it will validate the incoming username and password With the stored username and password.
With this, whatever the it was stored in previously user already created, right?
So whatever the user is already stored, its username and password, and whatever the incoming username
password, it matches it.
If it matched then it will update the authentication object.
What all things it will update.
It already has the username.
It already has the password.
But password it don't add it.
It just say protected.
We don't put it now it change.
If the matching happen then it says that authentication is true.
Yeah it is authenticated.
Also the role whatever the role.
So during the user creation we might have provided the roles which user has.
We have already seen that.
So that role also it will put this role is a for this user.
It has these many roles okay.
So it will update the authentication Object and it will return this fully authenticated object.
Return back to this filter.
Till now, no session is created.
Okay?
Only what happen is we have an authentication object which has all this information now which has roles
authenticated true username.
And yeah all this information like account is not expired.
It is unable credentials is not expired.
All this information is present now.
What will happen now.
The next filter it invoked is security context holder.
Filter what it will do.
What it will do is it will first create a security context object and put that authentication object
inside it.
Okay.
So now you can say that this security context has all this information actually okay.
So this security context has all this information.
And then it will pass this security context object to HTTP session security context repository class.
What it does, it will create a new HTTP session object.
A new HTTP session object is created and it stored the security context object inside the HTTP session.
Okay.
So this HTTP session has all this information now.
Okay.
So you will get to know that when this will be helpful.
Why it does that.
So first this authentication object it stores into security context.
And this security context is passed to this HTTP session security repository.
It creates a new HTTP session object.
It could be uh like, stored here in the DB or in memory.
Okay.
And this currently it is empty.
And then later on it, whatever the security context is there, it saves it inside a HTTP session object.
So HTTP session has, uh, all the info.
You can say that, uh, like session ID and you can say that all the expiry time, creation time.
And also it will hold all the, uh, security context info like all this information.
Okay.
So I'll show you here if you see.
Okay.
I'm just starting a server.
I'm just showing you I am just doing login.
So I have already created a default username and password.
You as e r and password I have created I have in the application dot properties Application.properties
itself, I have defined the default username and password from the previous video.
You already know that I have done sign in okay, user is sign in.
So means when I have done this what would have happened?
So means it has completed all the flow.
So now let me check the DB.
So spring session.
So this is the session data.
Session ID creation time last access time maximum inactive expiry time.
And this there is something called spring session attribute okay.
So if I see what is the spring security context and this is the serialized data, this is nothing but
the security context data.
This one this all data is actually stored in the session.
Right.
So this is all part of session data.
Spring session attributes.
Okay so HTTP session object is created and the whole session of security context object is stored inside
HTTP session.
And it is stored either in memory or DB.
Okay.
So till this point it is clear what has exactly happened.
Now after successful authentication if login endpoint was used.
If login endpoint was used because you know that after security filter chain it goes request goes to
dispatcher servlet from dispatcher servlet.
If there is interceptor it will go there.
Otherwise it goes to controller means some endpoint has to be invoked right.
So if you are using hash login endpoint.
So login is just for spring boot form login authentication.
If it is used then it will hit the default endpoint like just slash.
Okay.
So like this I have first open this URL slash login I have provided my user name, I have provided my
password, I have clicked on sign in.
And when I clicked on sign in now everything happened.
Okay, uh, how it goes and fetches the user existing user it compare whatever the username password
I have provided, then it, uh, whatever the security uh, context came authentication object it put
into security context.
Then it created a HTTP session object.
Okay.
And this security context also put into HTTP session.
And since I am using DB so all the details for the HTTP session right session id expiry creation time,
and also this uh, this HTTP session has the context right?
The security context detail that is also stored there in the DB.
And after that it has to call the controller.
So it calls the default endpoint.
This is nothing but a slash.
So I have created one get mapping of this default endpoint.
I will just say hello.
So that's why whenever I click sign in it will always print hello.
Okay so this first flow is now completed.
We know that how the first flow has happened.
Now the session is created and we know that the session is created for currently in our case like if
we check the DB I showed you right by default is 30 minutes.
But in DB for this one I have showed you it is for 300 like five minutes.
Okay, because that's what I have provided into application dot properties five minutes.
Okay now.
Yeah.
Before that again.
Like if you are not using slash login, if you are using directly slash users.
So now what would happen is it will try to look for that.
Okay.
You are trying to access a record resource.
Is it already authenticated?
No.
So it will redirect me to a login page where I provided a username password.
The same thing happened in the background HTTP session created properly.
Okay.
And all the session details either in memory or DB.
And after that is done it has to invoke the API.
So now default API is not invoked because I was trying to access slash user.
So it will call the same slash users only okay.
So default is only default endpoint is only get invoked when you are first trying to hit slash login
okay.
Now the second point.
So we have completed till this one.
Your client and server.
The client hits server with username password server has created the session.
HTTP session is created with ID and it has all the session details are also plus security.
Or you can say that security context data which has authentication authentication details.
So it has all this data either in DB or in memory.
And it has returned the uh, this ID session ID in response.
Till that we are done it is set into the cookies.
Now after authentication user is invoking any subsequent APIs.
Let's say I am trying to hit slash users or slash any other resource in the request.
I am just providing the cookie and this session ID this session ID now what would happen, how it will
validate it.
So again the first part is filter chain will come into the picture.
Now what is what are the filter chains.
The first filter chain will get invoked is security context holder filter.
Okay.
So now this is the.
So now here if you see.
Username password authentication filter is now not involved.
Okay.
Security context holder filter will get invoked.
And what it will do it will first pass the request to HTTP session security context repository.
It will try to fetch the HTTP session based on the session ID in the request.
Now any subsequent request in the cookie, they are passing the session ID, so it try to fetch the
HTTP session, whether from in-memory or from DB, it will try to fetch it.
If HTTP session is not valid or not found.
Okay, it will redirect it to slash login, but if it is found, what it will do is it will get the
security context from it.
You know that right in the HTTP session object.
What we have put above in the HTTP session object we have stores the security context and security context
has are nothing but a authentication of data.
So it fetches the security context from the HTTP session and returns the security context.
Okay.
So what it will do is now it will store the security context data.
You can say that the authentication data generally in one placeholder security context holder okay.
So this security context holder is available in the complete life cycle of the request.
Till the point of you can say that, uh, your controller get invoked.
This security context holder data is present.
So whatever the security context is coming from the HTTP session, it has all the authentication data.
It has all the authentication data okay.
It will just put it into the security context.
One place holder holder.
And that is now available throughout the lifecycle of the request.
So first thing done as soon as the request come it ables to it.
Go and find the HTTP session and it take out the security context.
Okay.
Now it will pass it to the next authorization filter.
I will also tell you how authorization works, but in the authorization filter it check does user has
the permission to access the resource or not?
Let's say that user is trying to hit slash users API.
Yes, user is authenticated from this jsessionid I am able to find the active HTTP session and it is
not yet expired.
I take out the authentication data.
Okay, so that my complete life cycle in the controller, let's say some flow needed some data.
They can fetch it, but I have the authentication data.
But authorization filter is also required.
Whether this user let's say that this user one has the permission to access the slash users resource
so that authorization filter validate I will show you how.
And once it is validated, yes, it has the permission.
Now the control will goes to dispatcher servlet particular controller.
Now it will access the request follow the fulfill the request.
So you got it like this two step.
So if we just see.
Now you will say that okay.
Now I have to implement the form login authentication.
What I have to do.
So if you just see we don't have to write a single line of code.
Everything is handled by a framework itself.
Everything which I told you like this filter chain everything.
Uh, like it is fetching the HTTP session write authorization filters.
Everything is already there in the framework.
Okay, we don't have to do a single line of code.
All we have to do is configuration.
Okay, I will show you.
And also I told you right.
It is a default authentication method of spring boot.
So if you open this class this is a framework class spring boot web security configuration.
If you see that default security filter chain in this one form login, it has set okay.
So there are different.
So it has two default like it has used form login and basic authentication.
It has set both okay.
But form login it has setted.
So we don't that's why we don't need any code even it has set like okay even if you don't tell anything
by default it will know that yes by default the user might be using form login only.
So all the the flow which I have told you automatically it will go through that flow only.
So all I have added is the dependency and the config.
So dependency is that this is the security dependency.
We already know that like till now.
And this dependency is like I want to store my session into the DB, that's all.
And in the application dot application.properties from the previous video.
You already know that I have created a username and password like hardcoded one.
I don't want to get a random password every time.
Okay, so for in the previous video I've already showed you what are the different ways to create a
username password.
Okay.
And this is the hardcoded one is just for the testing purpose.
It's not recommended in the live and the live recommendation I've already shown in the previous video.
So I have created a username password.
So when the user when during the server application startup time, one user would be created with this
user and with this password okay.
And this is the second thing which I have told, like I want to store the session into the DB and I
want Spring boot to create the tables for me and the session timeout.
I want five minutes Okay.
So we can test this one.
Like if you hit the API slash login API you will provide username and the password.
Okay.
Now if you click on the sign in okay.
So you will see that in the response after the successful authentication like uh in the response set
cookie you will get a session.
A session has been sent to you okay.
And later on any API you will access okay.
You will see that in the request.
We are passing that session ID again okay.
So this is the request.
We are passing it to the server.
So we have done nothing.
All we have added is form and application dot properties.
And this all has been handled.
We are able to do all of this stuff.
Okay, now one thing comes to your mind that, okay, let's say that if I want to change few things
like I don't want this default login page or default logout page, I want to create mine.
Mine login page.
Mine logout page.
Or I want to relax authentication on few endpoints.
If you see by default in the framework what it says that no matter any request, you have to be authenticated.
But let's say that you have like hey, I have certain public APIs.
I have some public APIs for which authentication is not required.
I don't want to force the user to authenticate.
These are public API.
How can I relax them?
Simple.
Write your own security filter chain.
Very simple right?
So in my configuration at the right configuration I have created my own configuration.
So here, if you see that I have said the same thing.
Any request authenticated but any request matches this.
Any API, let's say slash users API permit all no need to authenticate it.
So I am considering this is my public API.
This is just for example right.
So let's say that slash user is your public API.
You don't want any authentication.
So I just put dot permit all and any other request authenticate.
And here if you see I have just used form login with defaults.
So customized what with default.
So here with default itself login page is your default slash.
Logout is your default.
So if you want your custom login page you can change here like dot form login.
You can change something like form.
So something form dot login.
What is your login page?
Something.
My login.
Something like this.
You can change it whatever you want to do.
But what I mean to say is that you have to write your own security filter chain.
Right.
So now you get to know at this point of time, let's say that if you have to work with JWT, you will
always see that we have to write this security filter chain because we don't have to use dot form login.
We have to tell something like hey, something, JWT something because form login is the default one,
otherwise we have to tell it.
So now you know that okay.
Why for in my company we are using form, but we are not writing this bean.
Why?
Because it's already the by default one.
Okay, now form based authentication is clear right?
But still one thing left is authorization filter.
And also one more thing I am not going into like we have seen that right.
By default, the spring creates the table for you that session.
Session tables.
The this session tables.
Right where it gone.
Yeah.
Spring underscore session.
And also there is one more table like spring underscore session attributes something.
So these two tables it creates where it has all the data present.
We can also do that.
We can instead of relying on spring to create table for us we can override and we can create our own
table.
I don't want to go into that way because, uh, this is I don't think that it is widely used now, but
this is to set a fundamental.
In 20 1516, when I was working, we were writing our own tables and we were managing those table like
we have more tables and we are managing the session whether to increase the time or not.
Okay.
Whether to update this column or not like all this stuff, but I don't want to go in that way.
Like where we are managing by ourselves.
Just consider that it is possible.
Otherwise, if you don't require it, you have the basic need.
Let the spring manage your tables.
Spring tables for you and you already know that.
Why it is required?
Because you have different servers than you need to store somewhere.
Otherwise request goes to different server.
If it is stickiness is not maintained then there you will ask unnecessary user to authenticate.
Okay.
Yeah.
Now let's come back again to authorization filter which is left.
So as I already told you, that once the user is authenticated, when user is trying to access any resource
authorization check is mandatory.
It is done to make sure that user has permission to access it.
We already seen that By default.
Spring boot security do not put any restriction.
Again, do not put any restriction on any resource.
We have to do it manually.
Now let's say that you have endpoint slash user users by default.
If user is authenticated, if user one try to access it authenticated it will access it user two authenticated
and try to access it.
It will let it accept it.
Don't put any restriction by default we have to do it manually.
That ho hey for user one look for this role whether this should be user role for user two, look for
this role admin role it should have while accessing this resource.
So we have to tell that if you don't tell that no restriction, if you are authenticated, go and access
the resource.
So authorization has two phases.
Phase one.
So phase one is like you know that we have security chain filters.
Security chain.
Okay.
After that security chain.
Filter chain.
What is that your dispatcher servlet.
And then there is your controller ultimately.
Okay.
So authorization done at two places.
First at filter filter level.
Second at controller level.
Authorization check as part of security filter.
That's where our authorization filters comes into the picture.
Right.
And the second phase is authorization check after request passes the security filter but reaches the
controller.
So request passes the security filter but reached till the controller.
Now there I am checking that user is has the authority to access the resource or not.
So we will see this later because currently we are looking at the filter.
Okay.
So this one how to do at the controller level authorization.
We will see later because that is common for form based basic JWT or any other authentication method.
Because the control now digital controller now there we have to do an authorization.
So that part is common for all the authentication method.
But this part security filter this is unique for each one.
So for form based we know that authorization filter comes into the picture.
We have already seen that.
So how it does that.
So if you look that it's very simple I told you that by default spring boot security do not restrict
any resource.
We have to do it manually.
So I am doing it manually in the security filter chain I am telling any request matches this slash users
should have the role has role user.
This is just a string.
You can give anything okay and internally it append row l role underscore.
So it append this.
So ultimately internally it would become role user.
Like you can give anything.
It's a string but maintain a like follow some uh proper naming conventions okay.
So what I am telling is any request matchers like slash users should have the role user.
Okay.
So it will authenticate.
Also, it's not like it will not authenticate.
Authenticate plus has role also will be checked.
Also here in the application dot property I have added while creation of a user and password, I have
also assigned this user a role user.
Okay.
We have already seen that like in the dynamic.
Also how we can while creating a user how we can assign a role.
So while the application is startup user is created let's say there is some user table.
User is created with user name password and the role user is created okay.
And we have mentioned that slash user has the role user.
It required this.
Now what would happen now I am manually restricting that any user trying to access this endpoint should
have this role okay.
And also I told you no need to add role underscore.
It will automatically get added.
Now in not authentication filter it is authorization filter.
Now in authorization filter it will validate okay before I say anything just a very quick recap.
When the authorization filter is invoked, what is passed to it?
Security context folder.
What security context folder holds security context folder holds security context data which has all
authenticated data.
Authentication data has nothing but this this this is authenticated data right.
So it has all the user role, everything which is there in the DB only from DB it found right.
It called it fetches the user detail from the DB username password role.
It has all this data right.
So.
Now when authorization filter invoked it will validate okay.
User is trying to access this user's endpoint.
And this endpoint required role user role underscore user.
This because we have tell here.
And it knows that authorization filter got security context.
This has authentication data where all the user details is present.
All the username password role is present.
So it knows that this user has what role.
So we have already given this role okay.
So it will match.
If it match well and good it will let it go through the controller.
If not it will pass.
Forbidden exception.
Forbidden this one.
And in Application.properties let's say I am giving that this user has admin role.
But not.
But this API required this user role.
Now let's start the server.
Let's first user try to.
Let's first try to user login.
User pass user is successfully login.
Now I am trying to login.
User API endpoint when I hit.
It says that forbidden 403.
There is a mismatch in the role and authorization filter is the one which throws the forbidden exception.
Also, we can give as many roles to a user like more than one.
Okay, so here if you see request matchers, this API if anybody has.
Now I am using has any role.
Now I can provide like a list user admin anything.
And similarly I have provided here like this by comma separated I can provide as many roles I required.
Okay, so I hope by this point of time, form login authentication is clear.
So there are few questions can come sometimes during discussion how to control the session per user.
Now let's say that I have one user.
User one.
It is using browser one and it has created session here.
Now the same user using browser two or another window created another session incognito mode or another
session two same user session three.
What if it creates 1000 of session?
So we have to control the sessions right per user.
So we can also control it very simple way.
There is something called session management.
In the session management for session we can set the maximum session is one and after that max sessions
prevent login.
True.
So with this two field set like one one time, you are able to do create a session works fine.
Second time when you are trying to do it will say that maximum session of one user for this principle
exceeded.
Okay, so it will try to like with the username.
It will try to match okay, because with username only it fetches the data from the DB.
So only one user per session is allowed.
After that, if it exceed it will throw an exception.
If you want multiple session for you can just increase this 234 something like that.
There are also some time ask this what is session creation policy?
We haven't discussed anything like that right.
But if you see that dot session management, dot session creation policy is required.
Even if you don't write this, this is by default added if required.
So what is this session.
Creation policies.
So there are four values it can take if required.
Always.
Never.
Stateless.
If required means HTTP session is only created when needed.
And this is the default.
That's why above we haven't used it.
What it mean if only required.
So let's say that I have a public API.
I have a public API.
Okay, for that one HTTP session will not be created okay.
So it only created for which it is required.
Wherever authentication is required it creates HTTP session for that only.
But if you change it and use always always then no matter what HTTP session is always created.
If already HTTP session is present then it will reuse it.
But no matter whether it's a public API or not, a public API HTTP session would get created.
Okay.
But generally for public APIs, authentication is not required.
So generally you don't require you don't need to maintain the state because because let's say public
API is hit by uh, millions of times, you don't have to maintain an authentication.
It's just like informational.
Okay.
So that's why if required is generally preferred.
And it is default.
You don't need to create a session for each APIs.
Also for whichever it is not required.
Never says that.
Do not create a session.
Always use if present.
Okay.
And stateless is like no session is created at all.
It is used for stateless application like JWT.
Okay.
So this is what session creation policy mean.
And this is how generally we set.
And the last question which can come in like what are the disadvantage of form based authentication?
I think by this point of time you already got it.
Like first is like as we have discussed in the previous, vulnerable to security issues like CSRF,
we have already discussed very beginning all the attacks with demo.
Okay, how the CSR demo session hijacking is possible.
So form based authentication is vulnerable to it.
But if you see that by default CSRF is enabled for form based login, you can disable it.
Also in the security filter chain you can say that CSRF disable, but we should not do this for form
based authentication.
Always enable it CSRF right?
Because it is vulnerable to attack like CSRF, so do not disable it.
This is just for sample.
I am showing you.
You can disable it and session hijacking So you know that the session ID is passed in the cookie.
So it is very much likely that your session get hijacked.
It got stolen.
And using this your session ID, the attacker uses it.
Your resources access your resources.
The second is the session management is a big overhead.
So currently everything we have seen is handle to framework.
But I told you that when in 2015 and 16 we were working in a company, it was handled all manually like
because as per the business lot of things in the session, we have to manage according to business need,
right.
So generally if it is a very simple business then yeah, you can use framework.
But definitely as the business grows lot of custom needs required.
So you have to manage the session yourself.
So session management is a big overhead.
You have to have like a session tables, you have to manage its expiry and all this stuff.
Right.
And also now in case of distributed system like it would be like a scalability issue for sure.
And this is the subsequent issue is that database load.
Now you have in the distributed system let's say you have multiple services.
Or let's say that even for one service you have multiple instances.
Definitely you need a DB.
Then like you can't have a session stored in memory.
What if, as I told, because nowadays we have load balancer in front of the client, it can pass the
request to anybody.
So if earlier session is created here, user says that you are authenticated.
Now the second time it tries to access the control goes to the second instance.
Now you say that hey where is the session or and it will say that hey authenticated slash login page
again.
So this is a bad user experience.
Okay.
So that's why in memory is not used.
If you have multiple instances, you have to put into DB so that all the instances fetch the session
from the DB.
So there are multiple server.
Then we need to store in the session into db or cache.
So again memory you require lookup time is required which increases the latency.
Okay I hope this form login authentication is totally clear right?
Do practice it with your hand even though it is not very frequently used.
Nowadays JWT is very popular, but this is the fundamental if our this flow is clear, right?
All other authentication method, we will get to know that how they are working.
Why exactly we need those okay.
And if there is any question feel free to ping in the comment section.
We'll discuss more.
See you soon.
Bye.

--- Spring Boot Security - Part4 | Basic Authentication ---

Hey guys.
Shan this side.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in this spring security video we are going to discuss the next authentication method which
is basic authentication.
So till now we have seen the form login authentication method and which was a stateful authentication
method.
And this one is stateless authentication method.
So stateless authentication means server do not maintain the user authentication state.
No session is maintained by the server.
Okay.
So why it's called Basic as from the name it is clear.
It is basic like very very simple.
In this client has to pass the username and password with every request with every request.
If you are accessing the resources 100 times, you have to pass the username and password with each
and every request, right.
And we have to pass this in the authorization header.
So this is the form in the authorization header.
We have to form pass like this.
It goes like this in your request header.
So first one is basic which tells us it is a basic authentication method we are using.
Then your username colon the password which is base64 encoded.
So remember that it is always in an encoded form not encrypted form.
Right.
So if anybody intercepts your request they can easily decode your username and password.
That's why we call it like always use it on Https.
Never use it over HTTP basic authentication.
Never use it basic authentication over HTTP.
Because in the header we pass username and password and that is only encoded from not encrypted form.
So now we know very basic about this authentication method.
Let's go step by step.
Okay.
So first thing first we have to create a user.
And we have already seen in the video number 34 like how to create a username and a user and password.
Dynamic users we can create right.
We can even create a user in DB or in memory.
We have already seen all possible ways to create a user.
Okay, so I am using for testing purpose.
I am creating one user and I have hardcoded that username is user, password is pass and I have provided
a role admin okay so I have.
So when I will start my server, one user will get created and by default it will go into in memory.
It would be stored in in memory not in DB.
So if you have any doubt with this how user is created, how username password is stored, what is the
industry standard?
I would say that uh, please go through this video.
You will get to know that.
So first thing first we have to create a user.
Now, if any time you are hitting a request, let's say I am hitting one get request.
Okay.
Here, if you see slash API slash users in this, there is something called authorization in that I
have.
What is the auth type I have choose basic auth.
When I click on the basic auth I get an option to provide a username and password.
So I have provided my username user and password is pass.
Okay this one.
Now when I hit it right in the header it goes like this.
Basic.
Base64 of your username colon password.
So this is your base64 encoded form of your username and password.
It goes like this okay.
So your username and password goes into the header authorization header.
So this is the authorization field inside an header.
And this is how it goes.
Okay.
So if you open the basic authentication filter.
Okay.
Now when you hit it right when you click on uh send, when you click on send the control will come to
the basic authentication filter.
There you can check this the request try to fetch from the header authorization header.
It will try to fetch.
And there it will decode it.
And once it decoded you can see that this was your header.
And after decoding it you can see your username and password.
It is easy very easy to decode.
If it is not encrypted then you can know that if anybody got your, uh encoded form, they can decode
it.
It is nothing but a base64 only.
Okay, so this is how generally it send in the request and you have to pass it in each and every request.
Okay.
So one question comes to our mind that, hey, why we need to send the username and password in authorization
header only.
Why not?
I can't pass it in request body or query parameter or any other way.
Like why only header?
So these are the three possible reasons in my view.
First thing is standard we have to follow one standard.
Let's say if we don't follow any standard, one client can pass you into a request body.
Another client pass you in query parameter.
Another client pass you in header.
So it would be very difficult to deal with different clients.
Okay.
So there is an RFC 7617 HTTP standardization there.
It mentions that all the credentials has to be passed in header only.
And it is important for universally accepted standard across APIs and client so that no matter what
clients what APIs, if you have to pass the credential, you have to pass it into header.
So that's a standard so that you can write frameworks on top of it.
Okay.
The second thing is security.
There are many web servers which log the request body and even the query parameters.
Okay.
And that is not safe because they might be logging it for debugging or analytics purpose.
What if your username and password got logged inside that.
Right.
And you know that sometimes the logging tools which we use in a company, it belongs to a third party.
It's not yours.
Okay.
So this is a security breach.
But generally headers are not logged.
We never log headers.
Right.
So it reduces the risk of exposure.
Okay.
So security is one another big reason why header is chosen that yes we can pass username and password
inside an header.
And the third one is support for all HTTP requests in my view.
If you see that post and put yes, we have a request body and we can pass it.
But what about the get generally get do not have body.
So generally if we have a header then it can support whether the API is get put post whether the API
accept body query parameter or not.
So header would always be there.
So it to maintain a consistency.
Also this required.
So this is my reason like why I think that authorization header is preferred for the username and password.
Okay if that is clear.
Now let's understand little bit more about basic authentication and its flow.
So before I start I would highly recommend you to go through this form based authentication.
Why?
Because if you remember from this video form based authentication, there are two part at one part where
user provide a username password and the session got created.
And second is where user pass the session in the request itself and then where it is got authenticated.
So here in the basic authentication it's a combination of both.
So from first part yes username and password we are providing but we are not creating session in the
second like there is no second call.
There is nothing like a second request.
So in the one itself like one we have the username password.
Then we have like uh authenticate and do authorization.
Authorization part.
So in the second step session plus authorization happened.
Right.
So in the one part itself of the basic authentication user pass the username password.
But we don't create a session.
And then in the same request we do the authorization.
That's all.
Rest of the flow is same as form based.
So go through that.
Then it would be like a piece of cake to understand this.
So here let's say that you are hitting an API slash API slash users, and in the request and header
you are passing username and password.
Okay.
So one of the security filter chain get invoked.
Now what would happen.
So when we are using basic authentication the first filter which get invoked is basic authentication
filter.
This is the filter which will get invoked what the first thing it will do.
I already told you it will decode the authorization header.
I have already told you in the code also.
So this is the first thing it do.
It decode it.
Okay.
So it decode the authorization header.
Now we have here username and password.
Plain username.
Password.
Now the step is same as the form.
It create and pass the authentication object to Authentication manager.
This authentication object currently holds username.
This password, nothing else.
So it has this username.
It has this password, nothing else.
Authentication is currently false.
And no more information.
Okay.
After this, authentication manager will delegate the request to Dao authentication manager provider.
Okay.
What Dao will do.
So we have the password coming right.
So first it has to hash it.
So it will call the password encoder.
It will call the password encoder and hash the incoming raw password.
And after that what it will do is it will fetch the user detail based on the username from the DB.
We have created the user details right at the time of application startup user password role.
So there is already a user created so that need to be fetched.
So in the fifth point it will fetch those details from user detail service whether from in-memory or
DB.
Once we get it, it will validate the incoming username and password with the same or stored username
password.
Once matched properly, it will update the authentication object.
So now same like previously username password.
Yes authenticated is true.
Roles updated to admin.
Okay.
And it will return back to the basic authentication filter.
Okay.
Now what it will do at ninth step it will save this authentication object which is coming this into
a security context.
And put the security concept inside a security context folder.
This folder it will put inside this.
So this folder is accessible across till controller also okay.
So we can say that now the complete lifecycle of a request this security context would now be available
okay.
If in future you want to fetch whether user is authenticated what it is role.
You can easily do that.
Okay.
So now in the basic authentication filter itself we have done everything.
We have matched the username password with the stored one and then put it into the security context
holder.
The authenticated object.
Now this is the second filter get invoked is authorization filter.
It is also exactly the same as uh what we have done in the form based login okay.
So it goes to the authorization filter where it says that okay user is authenticated, but user has
the permission to access the resource or not.
So that only we validated it.
Okay.
So what we need to implement it.
The flow is very very simple.
Okay.
After that one the control proceed further.
The dispatcher servlet.
If there is interceptor then it will get invoked.
Otherwise controller right.
Very very simple.
And each and every time request is passed, sparse.
It follows the same thing because for each and every request, username and password is coming.
So what we need to implement it first thing is same thing.
We need dependency security.
And if you want to.
So this is not required.
So you remember that in form based login we use this because we wanted to store the session into the
DB.
Now here is no session at all.
So we don't need this dependency.
So only security is required.
Second thing is in application.properties if you want to create username password hard coded then it
is required.
Otherwise dynamically you already know that in the previous video we have already discussed how to create
a dynamic, but I am creating a hard coded one.
So in I have created one user.
Now see this one.
This is class is required.
So from the previous form login video, you know that.
What is the default authentication method for spring boot.
It is form based login.
So we have to override this security filter chain.
And we tell that, hey, the authentication which we have to follow is HTTP basic, not HTTP form.
So we are now overriding the default one.
So we are telling to springboot that your default is HTTP form which is form authentication.
But we are following HTTP basic which is basic authentication.
That is first thing.
Second thing is this is stateless.
So I have specifically mentioned that session creation policy already seen in the previous video.
What is this.
So this is stateless in form based.
It is if required if session is required created.
But basic authentication it is stateless.
Session is never created.
And each and every time you have to pass the username password.
So it is I have specifically mentioned it is stateless.
Third thing CSRF.
I need to disable it because from the first attack with demo video.
Right before we started security, I had already told you that CSR is required mainly where the session
is maintained.
So for the stateless, CSR is not even required.
What is CSR attack?
How to protect it?
We have already seen, uh, before we started the spring uh, security videos.
Right.
So you can also follow that one.
So why I have disabled it?
Because this is a stateless and CSF is not a valid for the stateless, uh, authentication.
It is only valid for where session is maintained.
Stateful okay.
And here if you see that I have put request matcher, any API which matches like this should have a
role like user.
So I am doing like an authorization filter here.
Just similarly like what we did in the previous video.
So what would happen is when the authentication happened, happen.
The request will go there.
It will check.
User is trying to access an API.
API slash users.
Okay.
This is the API user is trying to hit.
So this API is required.
Any role?
Yes.
User role required.
So user role this is required.
But what is the role user has.
User has role admin.
So it is not matching.
So it will throw forbidden error.
Forbidden.
So if matches let's say user.
And here also it is user then it will pass it and let it go.
Okay so I have here just to show that for this API I need a role user okay.
And that's all.
That's all you needed it to implement the basic authentication.
Everything is handled by framework.
All we have to tell is that which we have to override this spring security filter chain.
And just tell Spring Boot what we want.
Okay.
Very simple, right?
But why it is not used?
Why?
What are the disadvantages of basic authentication?
Now you can say that hey this is stateless right?
It is good.
But what are the disadvantages.
Why it is not popular.
So see these are the three main reasons which I think it is not very popular is one thing.
Credentials are sent in every request.
Right.
So that is one of the biggest thing is like if HTTP is not enforced then it can be intercepted and decoded
it.
We have already shown you right.
It's encoded not encrypted.
So one is security reasons right.
And once the credentials are compromised there is no way you can do it.
Only you have to change the credentials.
That's the only thing right.
There is nothing like a session.
You invalidate the session or token.
You invalidate the token.
Nothing.
You have to change the password, nothing else.
Another thing is like it is not very feasible that like user experience is bad.
Like for each and every request, you have to validate.
Authenticate yourself like username, password again and again.
And this makes it not suitable for large scale application.
Why?
Because it is an extra overhead for.
First thing is your request size increases.
Even though with some bytes.
But it will because of you have to pass the authorization header, your username, your password.
Then you have to encode it and then you have to add it to your request.
So some bytes will get added to your already the request.
So it will increase the request size and extra work.
Like first it has to decode then hashing of the incoming password, then fetch username and password
from db existing one and then comparing it.
So all this thing has to be done again and again and again.
Okay.
If your application is accepting 1 billion requests per day so 1 billion times it has to be done.
Okay.
And the follow up is DB lookup.
So now you are passing username password.
So for this username we have to fetch it from the DB.
Also like what is the username and password is stored.
Then only we do compare right.
So DB lookup is also has to be done which increase the latency also.
So that's because of all this issues this is not very popular okay.
So even though it is a stateless it's not popular.
And that's where comes JWT into the picture okay.
And that's what we will do next okay guys.
So any doubt please feel free to comment.
We can discuss further but this one is the very basic one.
If you already see in the form one, then most of the flow is very simple.
So it's uh, self descriptive, like the description itself from uh diagram itself.
It will get clear to you.
But still, if there is any doubt, we can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring Boot Security : What is JWT and its Structure ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do this JWT JSON Web token.
And if you have not seen the OAuth and cryptography videos in the same playlist, then I would highly
recommend to go through this because JWT is highly linked with OAuth, uses JWT and JWT uses cryptographic
keys and.
All right, so go through it once it's already been covered.
And today let's start without any wasting time.
What is JWT?
So in a very very simple term, it provides a secure way of transmitting information between parties
as a JSON object.
Right.
So you already know JSON object right?
It's like key value pair key and then value comma key value objects generally, right?
So what?
JWT is just a secure way of transmitting information between parties.
Okay.
This information can be verified because it's digitally, digitally signed using RSA etc. like Hmac
is one more algo which we can use.
Okay, so the message which you are transmitting between parties that can be digitally signed and how
you can digitally sign.
I have already explained the cryptography, but for now, in this definition, what you have to focus
on is it was developed as just a way of transmitting information securely.
That's all.
But over the time we are using JWT in many different areas for authentication, for authorization Position
and in.
So whenever you are doing single sign on right, you are using JWT.
And this is also one of the good interview question how you will implement single sign on to implement
a single sign on you need JWT, right?
So when I say that authentication JWT is used for authentication means confirming the user identity.
If I am saying it verifies that yes, he is shreyansh.
The message which is coming from Shreyansh authorization means it check for permission.
If I am trying to fetch certain details, then JWT also helps in authorization that does Shreyansh has
authority to fetch this detail or not.
Yes, authentication is done.
I am shreyansh, but do I have an authority to fetch certain details or not that also you can do and
single sign on.
You already know that you have signed in one.
Application one.
You have signed in.
You have already logged in.
Now there are different app.
App two.
App three.
Right.
Same user.
So here you have signed in, but with the single sign on you can log in to different application.
Now without trying to provide your username password.
So it it was built as a way of just transmitting information securely.
But this is today at this three places it is highly used.
And this advantages.
We will come again once we have finished all the understanding of the JWT.
Because then only it will make sense because when I say that it is self-contained, it's only when you
understand what is JWT, how it is a structure looks like, then only you will get to know.
Yes it's self contained.
Okay, so don't worry, we will come back to its advantage one more time once we will complete the JWT.
But for now, what is JWT and where?
Today they are highly used.
That should be in total clarity.
Okay, so this is you can say a flow of JWT today in the authentication part.
So this is let's say this is a client.
Okay.
So this is the first happen is so this is your authentication server.
So let's say any server which are there are many third party libraries available which provides you
the APIs through which you can generate token validate token.
And all right.
So that's why any application authorization authentication server.
So this is your app.
This is your application.
Right.
So and this is let's say any third party application.
Which support token generation and validation.
Okay.
There are so many available today.
And that's one of the advantages of JWT that you don't have to incorporate the authentication logic
in yourself.
There are already, uh, third party libraries available, which we can use, and they will take care
of generating a token, validating the token for you.
You just have to invoke them.
Okay.
So let's call that third party application as authentication server.
So as a client Right.
First I have to provide the username password.
So it will goes to an authentication server.
You provided your username password.
Now what this authentication server will do.
It will generate the token and return right.
It will generate the token JWT and it will return back to the client.
Now client will do is the client has the JWT.
Now it wanted to access a particular resource right.
So what it will do is it will call our application resource where the resource is actually stored.
So it will call the resource and pass the JWT in the header.
In the header.
Okay.
So let's say it calls the get API.
This is the get API.
Let's say uh some details but it passed the JWT also.
Now what this resource server your application will do is it will internally calls the API of Authorization
server.
Let's say some verify API and it will pass the token which it get from the client.
Now this all this logic present into authentication server where it will validate.
Yes, this token is generated by me.
It is valid.
I will tell you we will go more deeper into the token part how it validates it.
But just for now, understand that authentication server will validate the token and it will tell to
your application that yes this is token is verified.
It's valid.
It's valid token.
Once it is valid token resource owner will grant you the permission and it will return you the data.
Okay.
So this is the flow diagram of JWT.
So till now we are clear.
But before we proceed further we need to understand what was popular before JWT.
and what are the problems with it?
So if you remember right before JWT there was something called session ID or many engineers might know
it through session ID.
I have worked with session ID right?
So but this was very, very popular session ID so in this what used to happen is let's say a client
first what it will do.
Is it login with username password.
The same let's say authorize authorization or authentication server.
Third party server is there.
Or generally what used to happen was resource server itself performs this task.
Also.
Generally there is no third party library, but for simplification purpose, let's say that you have
another application which generates the session ID Okay, so first user provide a login with username
password.
It goes to your application.
What it will do is it will create the session ID and save it in DB.
That's the important part.
It will put into the DB that this is the session ID right.
And store all the information like expiry time, let's say session ID this belongs to this user.
This is the expiry time and other information that what are the roles like.
It can only fetch user details let's say certain roles it has put.
So all this data will put will be inserted into DB.
And this ID session ID which is just a unique random key Will be given back to the client.
Now with this ID.
So whenever it's send a request in the cookies.
This client will also pass this session ID.
Right now this resource server has to call the DB.
Now with this session ID fetch all the details, do all the logic okay.
Expiry time does it expired roles.
These are the roles.
So whatever the operation it wanted me to do send like fetch this does it has this roles or not.
So it will do lot of validation at their side.
And if it is got validated then only it will send the response, else it will throw error.
So one of the major major catch is that every time you are hitting a request to fetch the details,
it is hitting the DB to fetch the details from this particular session ID.
Why?
Because at the time of creation of session ID, when the time you provided username password, it was
stored in DB.
So it is stateful and JWT is.
Stateless.
There is no DB touch.
Whatever the JWT token we are returning.
That JWT token has all the information like expiry regarding user information etc. so there is no need
for DB and that's one of the advantage that it is stateless.
So Your J session ID is stateful.
It relies on server side state management.
Right.
And since DB comes into the picture, now you know that in case of distributed system this might cause
a problem, right?
Let's say the server the application which creates this session ID into this DB right.
So there are let's say different cluster of DB.
This is master slave.
This is one cluster one.
Let's say there are different cluster of DB.
So in a distributed system this all has to be sync up.
All DBS has to sync up.
We don't know this get request.
This get request comes to where okay.
So in case of distributed system extra handling need to be taken care.
Right.
And also one important part is during your Get request, your application has to query the DB, perform
validation on top of it so there would be an extra latency add up of querying the DB.
Now let's go back to the JWT again that what is its structure?
How does it become stateless.
Right.
It needed so many information that rose expiry user ID and maybe some other unique ID.
How it is able to store this just a token, right?
So this is the JWT structure.
So there are three things right JWT, JWT, J.W. but whenever we are talking about JWT right.
Ultimately actually we are always talking J.w.s.
Right.
So this you can say that always used together.
JWT J.w.s.
We will.
I will tell you how.
So let's say understand this JWT structure JWT structure has three part one.
After that there is a dot period.
Then this is the second part.
Then again there is a dot and this is the third part okay.
So this first part is known as header.
The second part is known as payload.
And the third part is known as signature right.
Let's go one by one header.
So header already contains the metadata information of the token metadata like what is the type always
JWT you will always find.
I have never seen any other value apart from JWT till now.
It's always JWT algo the signing algorithm.
So here the signing algorithm which you have used RSA or Mac.
Right.
Or if there are other different algorithms you can use it, right?
RSA I've already explained you in the previous cryptographic video and Mac is also I've explained you
this is symmetric.
This is symmetric cryptography key.
This is asymmetric cryptography key.
Right.
So I've already explained this.
So header contains information about metadata of the payload and the signature.
Now your payload.
So I told you that payload actually contains the information.
Or you can say that actually it contains claims right.
So in simple terms user information or any additional information is kept here.
Right.
JWT you see that these are the claims the understand claims.
Nothing like a just an information whatever you want to get.
So this these claims are divided into three parts.
Registered claims.
Public claims.
Private claims.
Okay, so in the payload it is all comes under this only all comes under this only.
But let's say that there are certain this words which are reserved by JWT.
So those are known as registered claims.
They have very specific meaning.
For example ES which JWT understand as issuer the entity that issued the JWT, for example ES is issued
by.
Some are JWT issuer at the rate that something some website link or something which identifies who is
the issuer, then subject identifies the user, let's say.
Subject sub 1234567.
Some unique identifier which identifies the user.
Who is the user.
Then your audience identify the recipient for which token is intended.
AUD let's say AUD would be uh, your whatever your your company name or anything for which it identifies
the recipient.
Then expiry time after this.
So exp is like which tell the expiry time.
After this time token is not valid, then nbf not before time before this token should not be accepted,
right?
So whatever the time is there before that you cannot accept the token and expiry is that after that
this token is not valid.
Then there is something called IAT, the time which token is issued and JT is unique.
JWT id some unique ID for this token.
So if you see that these names are reserved by JWT means they have predefined predefined name and meaning.
But now let's say that apart from this registered name, you have to put some other like I have put
here email.
So those would be considered as a public claim.
It's a custom claim which can be shared and understood by multiple parties.
Right.
So I have given the name email.
Anybody can understand that it will contain an email ID of the user.
Right or certain.
Don't never ever put some very very you can say that confidential information inside a payload like
some password or or never put never put your confidential information inside a payload.
Right.
So let's say email.
Apart from that, let's say that, uh, okay, uh, some, uh, country so I can put country, let's
say India.
So if you see that these are not registered names, I can put anything email, country, city or let's
say that last name, first name.
So these are you can say that a public claim which is understood which is understood by multiple parties.
Right.
They know that okay country I will get the what is the country name for this user like city.
I know that this what city belongs to.
So these are the public claims.
These are custom claims.
You can use any but it should be shared and understood by multiple parties.
Then there is something called private claims which is like understood by this your authentication server
itself.
So let's say that it calls that username password.
Now this authentication server has to generate the token.
Now let's say it has put uh I some IAM right.
And this is uh let's say resource server and resource server one.
Resource server two.
And it is passing this token to this JWT token to this.
Now this resource server one.
Understood this.
What is IAM what is IAM.
It doesn't understood it even though it is present inside here in the payload.
Let's say another IAM.
This is not understood by resource server one, resource server two.
When they pass it to authorization server for validate only.
This understood it.
Maybe for some internal purpose it might have added it, which is not understood by multiple parties.
That's what known as private claim.
Public claim is understood by multiple parties like, let's say country.
Yes.
Now resource server can understood that this is the country for the user.
But what is IAM I don't know.
I don't know.
Only authentication server might know it.
Who has added it.
So that is known as private claim.
It is again a custom claim.
You can add anything.
But these are not identified for.
But these are intended for internal use only and not standardized right.
So these are not standard like not expected other parties to know this resource server one doesn't know
this resource server two doesn't know this authentication server which created it.
They only know this right.
That's why known as private claim.
So understood.
So in the payload you can have have these claims.
But these claims are generally divided into three parts, but it's all under the same object, just
an object.
Now the third part is your signature.
This is very, very important.
And that's why I told you sometimes JWT and AWS when we whoever tells you JWT sometimes also covers
AWS because signature.
The third part of token is your signature.
And that's what Jess also is JSON web signature.
Okay, so they are used.
You can say that interchangeably.
So now what signature.
Now you now you have header.
Now you have payload.
Now what you will do how you will get a signature.
So what signature will do is it will first encode JWT header.
It will first encode Header base64 encoder.
It will do header payload.
Also it will do uh encode base64 encoding for this payload.
So it will also do base64 encoding for payload.
So it first encoded this header and it then it first encoded this payload.
Okay.
Then in concatenate the header and payload using this dot period.
So it will put a period and then concatenate this.
So it's now one string.
Okay.
So it would become like this your header and then your encoded payload.
Encoded header encoded payload.
So this is known as your message.
Or generally you can say that uh your information.
Now you are using RSA or any cryptographic, either asymmetric or symmetric, to create a digital signature.
Now you will pass it this message string to some algorithm.
Right.
So this is your one string message comma some key.
Because now we are passing it to algorithm.
If you are using RSA for example asymmetric key you have to pass a private key.
If you are using Mac you have to pass one secret key.
And the same secret key would be used at the time of digitally signing it, digitally verifying it.
Right.
Because in symmetric key the same key is used.
Same key is used while signing and while verifying it while right, and in the RSA two keys are used
are private key and public key.
So during signing it is signed through private key and during verifying the signature it is verified
through public key.
Okay, now once you have got this signature let's say some string encode the signature.
Also generate in the previous step you can encode it right.
Now let's say you have.
So whatever the signature you got let's say x y z a b c.
This is the signature you got.
Right.
You have to encode it.
Also you have to encode it base64 encoded also and concatenate using this dot.
So your header base64 your header dot.
Base64.
Your payload dot.
Now your base64 encode of your signature.
Got it.
So ultimately this is your JWT.
Gonna looks like.
So this is your base64 of header dot.
This is your base64 encoding of your payload.
This is your base64 encode of your signature value and how the signature value is generated I told you.
Okay, so here I have shown one sample get request.
Here I have shown you one sample API here.
If you see that I am making a Get request to this some dummy API okay.
And in the header part there is a header called authorization.
You have to pass like bearer and pass this this token.
Now you can ask me, right.
Hey, why we have to pass this bearer.
So in the header right there are you can add multiple like key value right.
So one of the standard industry standard is that wherever you are passing the credential you have to
pass the credential into authorization header so that it would be handled accordingly by the server.
Right.
So that's why I told you right.
So there are certain industry standard that yes I will get credential.
So it should be inside this header of authorization.
So they can put a specific logic.
It should not be like randomly anywhere coming.
So this is the header name.
They have decided that okay authorization put inside this.
Now inside this authorization there are multiple thing like basic Bearer when like you are doing that
basic and then some encoded value a b c d e f g something so basic means that you are passing username
password.
So when you decode this base64 value decode this.
For the basic you will get like something like this username colon password.
But if you are passing like bearer and then value then server will understand that okay this is not
username password.
This is token bearer means like industry standard means token is passed to me.
So I should behave in accordingly.
Okay.
So you might have a different logic.
If username password passed you might have a different logic that okay if bearer comes means token is
passed to me, then I have to call certain server and validate it okay.
So JWT is always passed from client to server in the header of authorization, but with the bearer word
not basic.
Remember Basic is for username password, so credentials always pass into authorization.
So this is a sample request.
Okay.
So now before going to the challenges with JWT.
So now let's come back to advantage.
First thing is you understand that it's a compact.
We are encoding it.
And because of its size it can be go inside a header itself HTTP header itself.
And its transmission is also fast because of its small size.
I have already told you it is stateless.
It is self-contained.
All the information you can kept it expiry time, user ID, anything it is can be digitally signed.
So I have already told you j.w.s.
Generally what we understand JWT.
So we are we are adding a signature right.
So that is AWS.
So means we are signing your token.
So JWT J.w.s.
Is using interchangeably.
You can say that.
So we can sign it using H and RSA.
And when you sign it at the receiver end you can validate that yes the message is not changed at all
right.
Built in expiry time I told you that it is stateless.
You can add expiry time here.
So you don't need DB.
So built in expiry expiry mechanism.
Is there custom claim additional data can be added in JWT like roles.
You have to add certain roles for this user.
You can add it into the claim itself.
So these are all the advantages of JWT which makes it stateless.
But now very very important part from interview perspective.
What are the challenges with JWT?
So you understood till now, right?
But before challenges, I will also tell you that let's say single sign on.
So.
So let's say that this is your company.
You have F1, f2, F3 this is you.
So now I think you already know what how the single sign on works.
So first it will goes to certain authentication server where it provided username password.
It will get the JWT token.
Now what does happen with the single sign on is let's say you are trying to log in to.
You are trying to opening this app one W-w-w dot let's say f1.com.
You are trying to open it.
So what it will do is it will pass the JWT token also whatever you have received.
And when this app one receives received JWT token, it internally tried to verify the your JWT.
If it verifies it will sign in.
Right.
And all this user information like let's say username email ID is already available in your payload,
so it can help you to sign in.
Hi.
Strange, how does it know?
It knows to JWT token itself that payload has maybe my name, my email ID so it able to verify me.
Similarly when it able to goes to app to it will pass jwt app to uses the let's say verify this token
from the server authentication server once it validated.
So verification signature everything is all good, nothing tampered.
It will help me sign in also.
So here if you see only once I have provided the username password I got the token.
Now the same token, I am using it to login at multiple places.
So that is known as so.
And this is implemented through JWT.
Now there is one big problem with JWT token invalidation.
Since JWT is stateless what does stateless means that these servers application server doesn't know
about this JWT at all, right?
It is issued to a user.
Now once it comes to them, they just validate it.
If it is valid, they will provided the access.
Now let's say that this user is fraud user.
This is fraud.
Now I want to block.
Now I want to block him.
Block this user.
But this user has a token which has expiry time of let's say, uh, today is, uh, March, let's say
April till 20th or 21st April.
So till 21st April, this has a valid token.
Now, even though this is a fraud user, how you will make this token invalid?
If I make this request to this application two it will check with the server.
Pass this token.
This token is valid.
Its expiry is not yet come.
So how you will invalidate the token.
So let's say that I have a blacklisted user.
How to invalidate a token before its expiration.
Biggest problem.
So there are today multiple ways through which we are doing this.
First is server need to keep the list of blacklisted tokens right.
And either the DB or cache lookup is required while validating.
So here.
You have authentication server, right?
And then there you have app one.
App two multiple.
So it can maintain a.
Token.
Blacklisted.
Blacklisted tokens.
Right.
And each token is identified using a particular ID.
I already told you there is something called unique token ID, right?
So now let's say that based on that it put the particular JT this token is invalid.
This is blacklisted.
Now when this fraud user is passing the JWT token and it is trying to validate it, it will check its
blacklisted.
Whether it's putting it in cache, whether it is putting it in DB.
This blacklisted list it can validate that hey this token ID is there in blacklisted list.
I need to deny it.
But this has a problem.
That which the problem you are solving with session ID avoid lookup of db or cache.
Now you are doing that.
Okay so this is one problem.
But so this this will solve the problem.
But this again has a disadvantage that you have to do a DB or cache lookup.
Okay.
What are the other ways.
The another way is to change the secret key itself.
So the change the secret key.
Uh, let's say that the uh, earlier you were using for signing it, you are using RSA.
Let's say you are using private key.
Public key one.
This is public key one.
Now you have changed this key to two.
Two.
So now at the time of verification it will verify the signature right.
So now it will try to verify with the new public key.
So it will invalidate because it was signed through one private key one, and if it will only be verified
properly if you sign it with public key one only.
But now you have changed the key itself.
So it will it will deny the user.
But what is the problem?
Or if the apart from this fraud user, if there are some genuine user also which was given a token using
private key one which was given a token which was signed using private key one that will not be able
to access your data.
Also, they might have to log in again.
So that's the problem.
That uh, second is if you change the secret key, this will solve the problem.
But this will make the JWT invalidate for all genuine user also.
But this is you can say that again a problem.
What other thing we can do is make a token should be very short lived instead of till April, right?
Let's say instead of till April.
What if I make that okay only for five minutes?
Your token is valid only for five minutes.
Your token is valid.
Okay.
So this will resolve a problem, but still till five minutes that problem exists.
So this sometimes is very popular.
And also this is popular.
That token should be used only once.
So generally this is combined token should be used only once plus very short lived let's say five minutes.
And it should be used only once.
After that you should generate a new token.
So this might solve a problem okay so but these are the different ways based upon your requirement.
Uh one of the solution is implemented.
Right.
So you can also ask me that.
Hey, how do we know that token should be used only once again to implement this?
This, uh, j JT the unique token id.
JT unique token id is some somebody.
It has to be stored in cache or somewhere where it will check that.
Hey, I have seen this token before, right.
So somewhere it has to do the DB.
So but you can say that the short lived tokens are that's why very popular.
It's not whenever you get a token it's not valid for one day, two day, one month.
They are very short lived.
Use it in within five ten minutes.
After that you have to might need to log in again okay.
So token invalidation has a problem.
Genuine problem.
There are different solution for that based upon the requirement of the let's say the question which
has been asked or your company multiple uh, you can say that mix or one of the solution is implemented.
Second JWT token is encoded not encrypted, so it's less secure.
I told you right.
You have header, then you have payload and then you have signature part.
Ultimately token is your encoding of header dot encoding of payload dot encoding, base64 encoding of
your signature value which ultimately got.
So here if you see that payload has mostly all the information and that is encoded, and you know that
this encoded payload, you can simply do base64 decode and you will get the data.
So this is less secure.
And for that j w e comes into the picture which is JSON web encryption.
So what it does is nothing.
Exactly same what we are doing.
But instead of encoding this letter of this payload, it will do encryption of this payload.
That's all.
And at the receiver side when verify should be happen they can decrypt it.
So your authentication server knows the keys let's say RSA for encryption decryption encryption should
happen through public key.
Decryption should happen through private key.
We have already discussed in the previous video right.
But JWT is right.
Encrypt your payload only.
So JWT token is encoded not encrypted.
It's not secure.
What to do?
Go for JWT.
In JWT, your payload part is encrypted and when your application calls the your application calls the
server to verify it.
So server knows already the key how to decrypt it.
So they will decrypt the payload and then do it, fetch the information and check expiry time and all
and then do the validation.
Okay.
So third the interview question comes is that in the JWT token ultimately let's say now you will get
more clarity JWT and AWS JWT token.
If it is not j.w.s in the JWT token you have header, you have payload and there is no signature.
So in the header you know that algae part which says that what algorithm you are using for signature?
It is none.
I am not signing it.
So such that is known as unsecured JWT where your algorithm is none for the signature that JWT should
be rejected.
Ultimately this JWT there is no signature part.
An algorithm is none, but this is known as unsecured JWT, J.W. says.
JSON web signature where you have an algorithm.
RSA whichever and you are doing the signature.
Also putting the signature.
But that is known as j.w.s.
But since nobody is using JWT without the signature.
So that's why the terms are JWT J.w.s.
Use interchangeably because nobody use JWT token with algo.
None signature always present.
Okay, so without signature it is known as unsecured JWT which is never entertained.
It should never be.
It should always be rejected with algo.
With none.
Remember?
Now see, this fourth and fifth part is very important from, uh, you can say that interview and uh,
the majorly attacker which use there is something called j w k j w k exploit.
So in the header I told you about type, I told you about algo.
But there is something called j w k also, right?
It is your key JSON map key.
So public key is shared in this public key is shared in this.
And it say that.
So you know that signature you have a message.
So message is sign using what key private key.
And this verify message is verified through public key.
Now this message JWT you got a message and it is already signed right.
And now this user is trying to call a resource server and passing the JWT.
Now this resource server should not have any logic to read the in the header.
There would be some j.w.k it will pass the public key.
Also this n or e combinedly form a public key, right?
This is I think, your exponent part and this is your modulus part.
So this both combine make a public key.
So resource server should not verify your JWT with the public key which is coming inside this j.w.k.
No it might be possible that attacker has changed the message right.
And put its own public key and its changed the signature, also the signature of the.
So it is possible that in the payload, in the payload, attacker has added some, added some values
and it's signed it again with its attacker private key.
Now you got the JWT from this.
Now you have to verify this sign digitally signed that it is coming.
Uh it is a valid or not is data is tampered or not.
If you use this public key which is coming in this j.w.k.
You might get.
Yes, it is verified because attacker might have added its public key.
Hey, verify with my public key.
So you might get accepted this payload that this is valid payload.
But my attacker might have added some other details which is not intended.
So JWT exploit is that never use public key which is shared inside this j.w.k.
within a header.
So what to do?
How?
So now let's say that resource owner want a public key.
Want a public key to verify it.
How to do that.
Or let's say that resource owner is calling the authentication server.
Now authentication server has to get the public key to sign it.
How it knows there is something called kid key ID.
I told you initially, right.
There is something in the header.
Also there is something called kid which you can add it inside a JWT also at the top also.
So this kid is nothing but a key ID, right?
And this key ID is used by your authentication server.
There is whatever the authentication server you are using right.
They all maintain a well known J.W. Jason.
So they have their own.
Or you can say that a link where they have a list of public key, list of public key which can be used.
So these are you can say that the whitelisted public key which authentication server can use.
And since these are public key everybody can know it right.
There is nothing to hide it.
So that's why they have generally this kind of link.
Whatever the authorization server, authentication server third party you are using, they might have
their own well known JS dot JSON.
This will contain the list of public key and each one will have a ID.
So this ID is present here.
So how the public key now authorization server knows that which public key I need to use to verify this
signature.
It uses the kid looked into it's Whitelisted public key and choose one kid.
Okay, this is the public key.
This is the kid.
This is somewhere.
Stored securely.
Public key.
And it will use that.
So now you know that these are the whitelisted.
These are the whitelisted public keys which can be used.
Right.
And with the kid, you can get that with the kid.
You can use that from the list.
So you got it.
Now if attacker you can say that.
What if attacker adds its own public key here.
Right.
And pass that kid right.
Then it's an issue.
Then we have to use a third party.
That's why we always say that choose a third party properly who is well known has taken all the precautions.
Right.
Security measures.
Otherwise, attacker may add its own public key into its whitelisted Stayed right somehow, and then
pass its own kid in the header and your resource server.
Uh, or maybe you, when you pass authentication server, use that kid.
And they say that, yes, this is present into my whitelisted public.
Let's accept this payload.
So you got it right.
These are some of the issues with the JWT.
And this is actually what JWT is.
I hope it's clear what problem it solves, what problem it has.
No there is no silver bullet for any technology.
JWT is highly used but it has certain gaps.
But there are like if used properly, right then it's uh like very very beneficial.
It makes life easier.
Authentication.
But.
Okay guys, see you soon.
Bye.

--- Spring Boot Security - JWT Authentication Implementation ---

Share on this site.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do JWT implementation in Springboot.
So very very important part.
And let's see that we will go in depth and clear each and every part of it.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So from the previous video, this one we have already understood what is JWT?
It's a stateless authentication method.
Stateless.
We already know that server do not maintain the user authentication state.
No session is maintained at server side and it has three part.
JWT has three part header, payload and signature.
We have already seen that each part in depth in the previous video, but for a quick overview, first
part is header, which is kind of a metadata like what algorithm we are using for signing purpose signature
purpose.
Okay, so this is just like what we are used.
Second is payload.
This is the data which actually holds some info specific to application.
Let's say that I am, uh, putting subject ID, some ID, user ID or user name or something.
Expiry time email.
Right.
Uh issuer.
So all these details and I have already explained you different types of payload.
Also sometimes it is also known as claims.
Right.
So we have private claim public claim.
So there are different type of claim which we have already seen in this video.
Okay.
So for now we know that in the payload we store some data which application uses it.
And the third part is signature.
The signature part is that where we are using the algorithm, whatever we have specified in the header
right.
And we sign the payload okay.
So it ensures token integrity prevents tampering.
Any change in payload like somebody has changed the role from user to admin.
So when we will recalculate or verify.
Verify the signature.
Right.
That will not match.
So this responsibility is that the integrity maintains of the payload.
No changes should have happened so that we have seen.
So once we are and also that uh all three parts are divided by this.
Dot.
Okay.
So part one.
Part two.
Part three.
Like this header payload and signature.
Okay.
And this is the sample token which we have seen like this is first part is header.
Second part is your payload.
This is nothing but a base64 form okay.
This is also base64 form okay.
And third one is your signature.
So till now, here we are clear about the what is JWT and its structure.
Okay, if you have not seen the previous video, kindly have a look.
Then it would be much clearer now what steps we have to follow to implement it.
So first step we will follow is definitely user creation.
So we will expose one API API slash user hyphen register through which we will create a user in our
db.
Okay that would be our first step.
And we have already seen that in the previous video.
I think second part of the security is that only user creation part.
So once the user is created, what we have to do we have to generate a token okay.
So here if you see the first step is user creation.
So in our DB we have now user user one and password let's say 123.
three.
So that is done.
After that we have a token generation means they call something like let's say we will expose API,
generate token API, generate hyphen token API in that they will pass the username and password u1 and
password one two, three.
So they will pass it.
So here we will do matching matching with the DB.
And if it's all good we will return a token JWT token.
So this is our the second step which we have to do.
The third one is token validation.
In that one what we will do is now user got the token.
They have to access any resource, let's say slash users or any restricted resource.
They will pass the JWT token to the server okay so it will validate.
the token.
Okay, if the token is valid, it will be like allowed the access to the resources allowed.
Okay.
If not, it will throw an exception.
The last one is refresh token.
So sometime what happen is this token is got expired.
So they can be we can expose one API slash refresh token slash refresh token through which we will validate
the refresh token.
And we will generate a new access token.
Okay.
So we need to provide the functionality to the user to refresh its JWT token sometime.
What happen is this token right.
Which has been generated okay.
In the step two they have a short lived period, generally 5 minutes or 10 minutes.
Right?
So they expired very soon.
So after five minutes, again, users should not provide its username password.
So generally in parallel refresh token is also sent to the client.
They can use that refresh token to generate a new access token.
Okay.
So all this functionality we have to build.
Okay.
So we will go step by step.
The first step is user creation dynamically.
And again I have already explained how to create a user dynamically in this video.
Username and password creation part okay so this is the implementation okay, but I have already explained
this so I will not go again into this one.
How to create a user.
So kindly, uh, take a reference of this video.
And the first part.
We can easily do that.
We have already seen that in the previous part.
Video okay.
So just like we have created a user controller where I have exposed this user register API.
Okay.
And we have user register entity where we have username password role user will pass it.
We will encode it.
We will hash the password and we will store it save in the DB.
Okay.
And we also have to implement this user detail service I have already told the reason why right.
Because this we have to implement this override this method.
And we have to tell to the spring boot how to fetch the data from the DB, because Spring boot doesn't
know what table and all.
So that's why we have to implement user detail service.
This we have already seen.
So at the part of this.
Once we done that from API, if we hit this slash API slash user register and give username is password
is one two, three.
Role is role.
Underscore user user is registered successfully message we will get and if we see the db we will see
that one table got added.
User underscore register.
This is what the entity which we have created right.
This is the entity which we have created.
And we have this ID password role username got added and password is in the hashed form.
So that's what we are doing right.
We are creating the hash first and then saving it.
So I am hoping that you have already gone through this video.
So you already know that how to create a user dynamically.
Okay.
So that first part is done.
Now here comes the important part.
And now from here we have to understand things much clearly and better token generation.
So now see that Spring boot do not provide any default implementation for JWT authentication.
So if you remember from form based or basic authentication, have we code anything.
No.
Framework has all the things ready for us.
Okay.
We just have to tell it to, uh, spring security config what authentication we have to use.
And that's all everything is handled by the framework itself.
But for JWT there is no such implementation.
Right?
Why?
You can ask why?
Because see for JWT different applications have different requirement.
What data you have to put in payload could be different, right?
What signing algorithm you have to use.
What are the refreshing strategy?
Some might not need it.
Some need it right.
So how much time?
Uh, this refresh token is valid or not.
So requirement is very different for different different application.
So that's what Springboot says that hey I have already have a framework you can go and enhance for the
JWT authentication.
But in simple terms the honors comes to engineer.
Now to implement the JWT functionality we have to implement the JWT functionality.
And that's why there is no one solution for it.
Different engineers, different ways to implement it.
So if you see different resources, you will see that, hey, somebody has implemented in this way,
somebody has implemented in this way.
So don't get confused because since Springboot has not provided the implementation, we engineers are
implementing it by own.
So definitely no one solution would be there.
Different engineer, different ways to implement.
So what we will stick to I will try to stick to security framework itself.
We will take the advantage of the Spring Boot security framework itself, and we will try to implement
the JWT functionality.
We will not create any resource like generate token or refresh token or something into the controller.
We will not use controller.
Controller is I will say that put our business logic security related.
We have a security framework and security framework has given us.
What do you mean by framework?
Framework is something which you can build on top of it.
Right.
So definitely we can expand the functionality.
We can add new functionality of JWT on the existing security framework.
That's what we will try to do.
And for that, let me give you one quick recap of architecture, and from this recap I will tell you
one thing which we have to notice, which will help us to do this enhancement.
Okay, so don't skip this.
This is very important part.
Like you might say that hey, I already know the architecture, but here I am going to tell you one
thing which we have to notice very important in this flow, which help us to enhance this functionality.
So we already know that when the request comes in what would happen?
The first part happen is security filter got invoked.
So now the security filter chain got invoked.
The request goes to the filter chain.
Correct.
There are multiple filter chain.
Let's say any one of the filter got invoked as we've seen that right in form based one of the filter
get invoked in basic authentication.
Another filter get invoked.
So now let's say that any one of the filter get invoked.
What they will do.
See this very important they create authentication object.
We have seen that Okay.
Like, uh, in form based.
What filter got invoked?
Username.
Password.
Filter.
They create an object of I think username password token.
This is the authentication.
So authentication is an interface.
And these are all its implementation username password token.
And in the basic authentication there is something called basic authentication filter.
And they might have generated their own token.
Right.
Uh something basic token something.
So what I'm trying to say is that each filter creates their own authentication object.
Very important.
Just keep it in your head for now because we are going to come back to this again.
Now, this filter, pass this authentication object to the authentication manager which is an interface
and this is the implementation of it.
Now what it will do.
Provider manager, provider manager delegate this request which is coming to one of the authentication
provider.
There are many authentication provider authentication provider different different authentication provider.
So one of the authentication provider will receive this authentication object.
And who will pass it.
Provider manager will pass it okay.
Again concentrate on this delegate.
So provider manager is the one which delegate the request and how delegate.
We will see that because this is going to help us to enhance the functionality.
And once the provider receives the request, they will perform the operation, what they are intend
to do and then they return back the fully authentication response.
Yes, authenticated is true.
I am able to match the uh, I'm able to authenticate the user, and ultimately it returns the object
back to the filter, and the filter is stored it into the security context holder depend upon the authentication
method.
Right.
So this is the basic flow which we have seen till now.
But now notice one behavior very important behavior.
First security filter is the one which creates authentication object okay.
Which with data coming from requests like username password or session ID or token.
So when the request comes in they will pass either username password or session ID or let's say JWT
token.
And ultimately with this data filter get invoked.
And with that data itself it will create an authentication object.
So this is be clear.
Okay.
So here at this point of time authentication object has uh like the details which user has passed either
username, password or session ID or token.
But authentication is false.
Currently correct.
But does it know which authentication provider can handle it?
Does it know that at this security filter knows that hey, my this object should goes to this provider
or this provider?
Does it know know who knows it provider manager knows IT.
Authentication manager.
So that is authentication manager.
Provider manager is nothing but an authentication manager.
So authentication manager has a list of authentication providers.
It has a list it calls support method of each authentication provider.
So what happens is this provider manager has a list of authentication provider okay.
And it iterate over each provider.
And each provider has something called support support, support.
So it calls each provider and calls their support method and check.
Hey, I am getting this authentication object.
Can you handle it?
Can you support it?
Any one of them which says yes, this delegate the request to that provider okay.
So Authentication manager has a list of authentication provider.
It calls support method of each authentication provider.
And pass the authentication object and check if they can handle it or not okay.
So it calls support method and pass this authentication authentication object and check hey can you
handle it.
Any of the provider which says yes, it will pass it to delegate it to that provider.
So let's see the framework provider manager framework.
So we can see this functionality from here.
So it iterate over a list of providers Okay.
So here, here if you see it has a for loop it has a for loop iterating over the list of providers.
Okay.
From this list of provider it is calling support.
Okay.
It is calling support method for each provider and checking hey can you handle it.
If no it will continue.
Go to the next provider and check.
Can you support it?
Any one of them say that yes, I can support it.
It will call its authenticate method.
Hey, now you go ahead unauthenticated.
We have to use the same functionality to implement JWT.
How?
See that we need to enhance this functionality itself for JWT.
Now just see this colored one.
Focus on this colored one.
If you have to enhance the JWT, what we have to do let's say request comes with data.
Let's say token Security filter.
Pass it to the chain.
So one thing first we have to do right is write our custom security filter okay.
Because our requirement is different right.
So we have to write our custom security filter.
We can do that.
We have to add it into the chain okay.
That is the first part.
We have to write our custom security filter and add it into the filter chain.
This security filter has to create a custom authentication object.
Now one thing should have come to your mind that okay, if I am creating a custom authentication object,
what authentication?
What authentication provider will support this?
Because Dao authentication provider does understand custom authentication object?
No.
It can handle username password token authentication object.
It can only support this.
There might be some other provider they support different.
So we have to write our custom authentication provider which understand our custom authentication object.
Okay.
So we have to write our own authentication provider.
So we have added the functionality here.
Also.
Another thing is that this provider which we have written newly, we have to update the list.
We have to add it into the list of provider manager okay.
So that it will iterate over the list over the authentication provider.
Let's say that it has for authentication provider one Dao one different okay.
So it will when I am getting a custom authentication object, it will first check for Dao or for other.
And then let's say that custom authentication provider comes in.
It will call its support method.
Hey can you support this custom authentication object?
It will say yes and then it will delegate the to our provider.
So we have to add our custom filter into.
And once the custom filter is added into the chain.
Right.
It has to create an object of custom authentication object.
Now since the custom authentication object we have to write our custom authentication provider which
understand this object okay.
And also update the authentication manager, this provider list.
So it maintains a list right.
So we have to update it.
Now the authentication manager will get this object.
It will iterate over the list and calls the support method okay.
So it will pass it to the custom authentication provider only because its support method only will return
true.
So now we are getting some hint that how we can implement the JWT functionality using the security framework
itself.
So can we start now?
Let's we can code for token generation part.
Okay.
And don't worry, I have already pushed this code to the git.
I will share the link in the member community section.
I will share the link or the git link.
Okay.
First.
First thing first we need to add the JWT dependencies.
Why we need JWT dependency?
Because we need to have an implementation which can generate tokens, right?
So first is this jwt API.
So this is provide an API only okay.
We need its implementation.
Either you can use the same JWT implementation or some other different implementation.
I am using its implementation only.
Okay.
So JWT impl its implementation, its interfaces implementation, API implementation Fermentation.
And the third dependency you needed is J.J. Jackson.
It is required for JSON processing.
So in the payload you have like key value, key value, key value.
Right.
So this is nothing but in JSON form.
So it has to parse it and take out the particular data.
So it needs JSON processing capability.
So we have to add that also.
And with this two it it signs the key.
It generates a token.
So all those functionality present here we will see that.
Okay.
So now let's start it.
So we have added the dependency.
So this is the first filter which we have to create JWT authentication filter.
So what we are trying to achieve now.
We have to create a token.
We have to.
Generate token, right?
And when we have to generate a token what we are implementing it, we have to expose an API.
Let's say generate hyphen token where user can pass its username password.
Okay.
What it will do is it will validate the username and password.
Whatever the data is already present into the DB, it will validate it.
If it is match we have to return the JWT token.
This is the functionality we are trying to build.
Okay.
So first thing which we have added is the filter.
So this filter what it does.
Now see one by one.
What.
Whenever I created a filter I extend it with one per request.
Filter okay.
Why.
What does one per request filter do.
So we have a filter chain, right?
There are so many filters inside a filter chain.
So one per request filter makes sure that in one request.
In one request, any filter should not run twice.
Okay.
So any filter should run only once per request.
Okay.
So that's what it makes sure that because sometimes what happens is this filter invoke this this filter
invoke this this filter invoke this.
So we need to internally it need to make sure that.
What if it again invokes this.
Okay.
So it has to make sure that no filter get invoked twice.
So that is just its functionality.
That's why we have extend our filter with the one per request filter.
Okay.
So we are creating our first filter.
And we have to implement do filter filter internal which is the we have to provide it, the implementation
of it.
So here, see that what I am doing, I am looking if the path of the API is slash generate hyphen token,
then only go ahead.
Otherwise move to the next filter like this filter will only work when the path is generate token.
Okay, so we have to specify because we are writing a new filter, right?
We have to make sure that it only process the request which is intend to.
So that's where it is doing.
So if you are doing form form based login form based authentication, if you see it it will check.
If it is login then only go and do some logic.
Otherwise go to the next filter.
Maybe some other filter might be interested in this endpoint.
point.
Okay, so that's what here I am doing.
If the endpoint is generate hyphen token, then only this logic should run.
Otherwise move add with the next filter okay.
And return it from this.
Now yes user is calling the generate token endpoint.
Okay.
So in the generate token endpoint we have to pass uh provide a you can object where user can pass username
password.
So that's why I am creating a login request object.
So here user can pass username and password in the body okay.
Login request.
So now this endpoint is invoked.
Yes.
And this filter.
Yes.
Match.
Then it proceed to work this.
So what it will do is it will read the login request first.
The login request has username password.
What user has passed here.
Username password.
Now I got the username password.
And here if you see that I am creating a token, I told you the filter.
What filter first does is create an authentication object.
What authentication object I am creating username password authentication token.
You something might hit your mind as of now.
Hey, isn't this thing the form based also using?
Yes.
So if you see in username password filter which is used by form based it create the same thing username
password token authentication token.
This is the same token which it creates okay.
And which provider can handle this token Dao authentication provider this Dao authentication provider
support this.
Username.
password authentication token.
You can see that also.
So if you open Dao it parent is this one is this has something called support.
Yeah.
So this username password authentication token is supported by Dao.
Okay.
That we know that.
So you can ask me that.
Hey then why you are creating this authentication token.
Will not the authentication manager pass this your request to the Dao.
Yes.
That's what we wanted because what does Dao does.
We have seen that right.
What Dao does Dao authentication provider.
Whatever the username password comes in, first it will create a hash of the password.
Then based on the username it will load the data either from the DB or from in-memory.
We currently we are storing into the DB.
So it will load it from the DB then it will match it and it will create the fully authentication object
and return.
So this authentication has like fully authenticated true or false.
That's what we wanted to do right?
That's what we wanted to do.
Once we get the username password we have to validate the username password.
So first we have to hash it.
Then based on the username we have to load the data from the DB whatever the username password is stored.
Then we have to match it.
And once the matching is happened then only we have to create a JWT token.
But all this matching logic is already there in the Dao provider.
So that's what I am using that only.
So I created this token intentionally and I passed the username password.
Okay.
So and after that I am calling this authentication manager authenticate and pass this token authentication
token to that.
And now you know that what would happen this authentication manager, if you go the framework authentication
manager will iterate over the providers.
Okay.
It will check the support.
Hey, who supports this username password authentication token?
The Dao will say that yes I will support and it will call its authenticate.
It will do a proper matching and returns ultimately.
Okay.
And once we get the authentication result okay.
So since this username password authentication token is a child of authentication only so we can catch
it into the parent.
No issues.
So once it is authenticated what we have to do we have to generate the token and return.
That's what I'm doing I am I have written one util I am calling that generate token right.
And once the token is generated I am sending it to the response header authorization bear this one.
Okay, we will see that.
But you understand the filter, what it is doing.
So first filter part is clear right?
Request goes to filter.
Filter creates an authentication object okay.
Then it reached to the provider.
Provider passes to one of the authentication uh this provider manager you can see the authentication
manager authentication manager pass it to authentication provider.
In this case Dao provider got invoked.
It passes the request with authentication equals to true passes to the filter.
This filter, whatever we have written this now it will generate the token generate the token and put
it into the response header okay.
And do we need to iterate to the next filter after this?
No.
After this we don't have to iterate to the next filter because we have sent the response.
We don't have to go to the controller level here.
At this point of time, do we need to go to the controller level?
No.
So that's why I haven't do filter chain dot do filter here.
I don't want to go to the controller, just return it from here.
So if this is clear we will see few things like login request.
We have already seen that I have created this so that user can pass the username and password into the
request.
Then here I have created JWT utility utility class.
So if you see this is the method which I have written where I am calling generate token.
Okay, I am passing whatever I have to put into my payload.
Right.
And I want an expiry time of 15 minutes okay.
So that's what generate token.
What is the username and expiry time.
So this is the API and implementation which we have added into the palm.
Right.
So they have exposed these APIs.
Now here what I am doing is I am using in the dependency.
We have added the JWT impl and interfaces right API.
So we are using that only to create the token.
So we are putting the subject issued at expiration.
Whatever the signing algorithm which we have to use we are putting it.
Okay.
So we have provided like what is our key which we have to use okay.
And the algorithm which we have to use to sign okay.
So since we are using Hmac which is a symmetric key means the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt.
You can say that okay.
So the same key is used to sign and verify in this case okay.
So this is your secret key which should not be stored like this.
This is just for demo purpose.
I am putting it to static final, but it should be stored somewhere like, which cannot be accessed
so easily.
Okay, so we have our secret key and we use that key and we will sign we will use this algorithm to
sign our payload.
Okay.
So that is the second thing we have which we have done JWT implementation.
Apart from that what we have done is in the security config.
If you see the security config this see the red boxes.
We have written this newly.
Now see that in security filter chain.
This is the first thing which we have added.
We have to create an object of this our filter JWT authentication filter.
Right.
We have to create an object of it.
See this is not at the rate component the spring will not create.
It's been automatically we have to tell okay because it's a filter.
So that's where inside here in the been here in the bin configuration we are creating it's object.
We are creating new JWT authentication filter.
We are passing the manager and JWT util right.
Why we are passing it authentication manager and util because it needed it.
I have to generate a token.
So I need jwt util object right?
I have this, it has to invoke this.
So that's why I need jwt util object.
And also I need to call the authentication um to the authentication manager method.
Right.
So I need authentication manager object also.
So that's why I have this two variables.
So this security config filter chain is passing the authentication manager and jwt util to it.
Now before going to next yes we have to create an object of authentication manager and jwt util also.
So see this.
First, I am creating a authentication manager.
There are two ways.
First way is you create your new authentication manager.
Provider.
Manager is the implementation right.
So here I am creating a new provider manager.
And see I am giving my own list of providers where it will iterate over it.
So currently I have added only one authentication provider Dao authentication provider.
Remember that Spring boot do not automatically adds any provider.
Okay, if you are creating a new provider manager, we have to tell what all the providers we have to
put authentication providers we have to put into the list.
So I want only one Dao authentication provider, you know.
Right.
Why?
Because my filter, whatever the token I have created I know that Dao authentication provider can handle
it.
I have added it The second way is that get the Authentication Manager object and update the update the
list of authentication provider instead of creating new provider manager, get whatever the object is
spring boot already created and update its list.
Okay, but for now we can do anything.
Both are simple, but for now I am using that.
I am creating my new provider manager and I have provided specifically this list.
Okay, so Authentication manager we have created it.
Now jwt util.
So here if you see that jwt util is nothing but at the rate component.
So object would be created by spring boot only.
So we are just using that and putting it here initializing it here okay so I am not creating new JWT
util no, uh, because it has at the rate component, so it objects would be created and it would get
initialized at this point of time.
So now I have these two objects.
My authentication filter object is created.
Now what I have done extra into this security filter chain.
Now I have to see that whatever the filter you have created, I told you whatever the filter you have
created, you have to add it into the filter chain.
I have created the filter, but will it get automatically added into the filter chain?
No, we have to tell.
We have to add it into this chain, and we have to tell the exact place where we have to add.
Spring boot doesn't know automatically where you have to put.
So that's what I am telling.
I'm telling add filter before.
So this is the filter which I have created newly.
I have to add it before this filter.
Username password authentication filter.
So you know that by default so many filters got added.
I think first one is security context filter, second one is username password authentication filter.
Third one is basic authentication filter.
I think fourth one is authorization filter.
So many filters are there.
So now what does JWT authentication filter JWT authentication filter where it will get added into this
list.
We are telling add filter before this is the filter add before username password authentication.
So add before this.
So this is the place I am telling add my filter here.
Got it.
So this is also done.
Now one more thing.
This authentication provider right.
We have to create its object.
As I told you that automatically spring boot do not creates authentication provider for us Okay, we
have to tell like what all providers we want to use.
But you can ask like, hey, in the previous form based authentication, basic authentication.
We haven't created this, right.
If you remember we were using here something called right HTTP dot form.
I think something called customized dot default.
Something for basic HTTP dot basic customized dot default.
So this internally it creates a lot of default functionality for form and base.
So they create an object like what all providers they might require.
So they create an object of it.
They create a object and put it into the list.
But now here if you are seeing we are not using HTTP basic, we are not using HTTP form.
Right?
And we are not using customized dot default.
So whatever is required we have to tell.
So authentication manager object we are creating it and we are telling that, hey, we need only one
authentication provider as of now.
This is the provider.
Okay, so the authentication provider needed this two thing password encoder and user detail service
because we know that it has to call the password encoder and call the user detail service.
So these two things we have to set it.
And that's what I have set it here.
Okay.
Password encoder which we have already has the object at part of at the time of user creation and user
detail service.
User detail service.
Also at the rate component we have determined while creating the user.
So we are just initializing it and that's all.
So our security config is complete.
So what we have done till now.
We have created a filter.
We have created a filter We have put it into one of the filter chain.
There are lot of filters.
This is our filter.
We have put it into the filter chain.
We have provider manager and we have have its list ready which has Dao authentication provider.
Then we have some authentication provider created.
We have created its object which is Dao authentication provider.
Okay.
So this all we have done.
Now what would happen first is user registered.
The first thing we have already exposed the API user is registering SJ 123 role user in DB user is registered
SJ 123.
Its role is user.
This would get created into the DB.
Now I am calling generate token API.
Okay, now the generate token I am into the body.
I am putting username password.
So this username password is getting by this one.
Login request username password.
Now I am hitting it.
So what would happen.
The filter chain.
Pass it to the filter.
Which filter it will get caught is our JWT authentication filter.
JWT authentication filter will come okay because we have already added into a specific place.
We have added into after before the username password authentication filter so it will get invoked.
Now this will get invoked.
This will check hey generate token.
Yes this is something I am interested in.
It will take out a username login request username password.
It will create the token and it will pass the authentication manager.
Authentication manager.
Also we have created which has only list of one authentication provider which is Dao.
So that framework, this is the framework will ultimately get invoked.
So it will iterate over this provider.
Only one provider is there support.
It will call Dao one.
Yes Dao supports username password authentication token.
And ultimately it will call its authenticate.
Okay.
So Dao ultimately will call password encoder call user detail service which will load from the DB,
match it, ultimately return it to our filter.
And then our filter calls jwt util, generate a token and put it into header authorization bearer.
So here ultimately it will put into authorization bearer and this is our token.
Got added.
So token is generated at this point of time.
So here if you see that we haven't exposed any API, we haven't exposed this API into controller.
We have added into the security filters itself.
And from there only we handle it.
And very much specifically we are working with the framework itself.
We haven't uh, going uh way apart from the framework.
If you understand this right.
Token validation is just a piece of cake.
Okay.
So now here in the token validation, what we have to do understand that one now user is trying to access
any API, let's say users API.
This is a restricted API okay.
Now it will pass JWT token to us JWT token.
Now we have to validate this token.
Validate token and if token is validated.
So this is your, uh, filter, uh, security framework.
If the token is validated, it has to pass it to the controller.
Controller.
It will fetch the resource and ultimately return.
Okay.
So that's what we have to do.
And inside a token validation.
So here if user try to access any restricted resource they need to pass the token into the authentication
header like this.
So whenever any request is coming let's say API user user has to pass like this.
In the authorization header they have to choose bearer token and pass the token whatever we have written
in the previous step okay.
Now first thing first we have to write our filter.
We have to write our filter which will do this validation.
So I have created this filter again once per request filter I have extended it.
Why?
Because I need to make sure that this filter only runs once per request.
So first thing I am doing no matter what request.
So here if you see I am not checking any users or anything, no matter what request comes, I am extracting
the JWT from the request.
I am extracting the JWT.
How I am extracting from the request.
I am reading the header authorization and starts with bearer.
So I am take out the token out of it.
So I have taken out the token.
If token is not null, what I am doing is I am creating a new authentication object.
Now see that I am creating a custom authentication object JWT authentication token JWT authentication
token.
It's a child of abstract authentication token which is again a child of love authentication.
Object.
Authentication.
So here, if you see that I am putting only one field token, you can even have more.
But I have only one token.
Okay.
Currently authenticated.
I have set it to false.
This is present inside this.
So currently it's authenticated.
No.
And I have only one token.
So whatever the token which I have get from the user.
So what filter does is filter.
First thing is that create an authentication object.
So I'm creating JWT authentication token.
And I have put this token whatever the I'm getting from the user.
So I have put here.
So now I got object but currently it's authenticated false authentication manager I am calling authentication
manager dot authenticate authentication token.
Now at this point of time you must ask a question.
Hey change the authentication manager.
If you from the previous generate token, we have added only one provider which is Dao and Dao authentication
provider do not understand this.
So who will access it?
Yes.
So if you go to the security config.
We have in the provider apart from Dao we have added one more authentication provider JWT authentication
provider.
We have created a new provider which understand this authentication object.
Okay.
So we will see that.
So we have created a new authentication provider.
New authentication provider.
So it's a child of authentication provider.
IT support is yes I understand JWT authentication token.
So it understand this JWT authentication token okay.
So authentication manager calls the authenticate object.
Now the provider manager will iterate over the list of authentication provider so there are two into
the list, right?
So it will first go to Dao.
Dao.
Do you understand JWT authentication object?
It will say no I don't understand.
Then it will go to this JWT authentication provider.
Do you support this JWT authentication token?
It will say yes, I support it and then it will call its authentication method.
So I am calling its authenticate.
So what this provider authenticating it.
Now you got this uh here right where it goes.
It has to validate the token.
That's what I am doing it here.
Now, whatever the token, I am getting whatever from this authentication.
I take out the token from this authentication, I take out the token.
Whatever the token I am getting, I have created one more method J.W. inside a jwt util validate and
extract username token.
So here I am creating JWT.
This method we have already created in generate and this is I have created newly read one.
So I am parsing the JWT token.
I have put the signing key because it has since it's a mac, right?
So it has to use the same key.
I am parsing it the claim the payload part.
I am taken out its body and from that body I taken out the subject and subject.
I have put in the username right and the subject I have put it the username.
So I'm taking out that extracting that info.
I am taking out that username.
If username is null, I am saying invalid JWT token right?
But if I get it what I am doing it.
I am calling user detail service load user by username.
I am calling the DB.
Fetching the user detail service.
It has let's say username, password, role, whatever.
All the information about the user I got it.
Here you can see that this one either you can enhance your JWT authentication token itself right.
Or I am using username password authentication token where I am putting this whole username details.
Right.
And ultimately returning it because we have to do what we have to do is here.
If you see we have to pass it to the controller.
Right.
So from this filter we have to we we don't have to return it from here itself.
We have to let the chain go and let it go through.
Controller and controller also should have access to authentication object okay.
It has access to authentication object.
So that's what I am trying to do here.
So once it is authenticated, token is valid.
I am creating a authentic because I have to return an authentication object.
Either you can extend this itself.
This is also an authentication object.
So currently I have only token here.
Okay.
So you can also create here a JWT authentication token itself.
Okay.
And you can now change its authentication to true.
At this point of time authentication to true.
And also have a placeholder which is stored.
This user details which holds this user details.
So for simplicity purpose I haven't extended all this information.
So I uses the existing authentication object username password.
I put the user details here.
Okay.
It will automatically make it to authenticated.
True.
It will return it to my filter.
Now if it is authenticated I am storing into the security context holder.
Now since it is stored in security contact holder, even the controller have now access to it.
Even the controller now have access to it.
Now all I have to do is filter change or do filter.
I don't have to stop the chaining.
Continue.
After this filter, my validation is done.
If authentication is true, I put it into the security context folder and go next.
So maybe.
Furthermore filters.
After that filters.
Ultimately controller will get invoked and once controller done it will return the data.
What is asked for.
Okay.
So first thing we have done is return an authentication filter.
Okay.
You understand that this is the second thing which I have are have a custom authentication object token.
Okay.
This is the third because since this is a custom authentication token, I have to write a provider which
understands Understand that.
So I have a provider which supports this and I have written validate token.
So this task is to just validate it.
If it is validated true properly, I just load the user details and put it into the authentication object,
either the one which we have created.
For now I have used the existing one, but we can use the what we have created.
We just need to expand user details so that we can store it.
After that it will go back to the filter.
But filter have stored this authenticate object into the security context so that controller have access
to it also if required.
And after that I'll let it go the chain.
So maybe further chaining after security filters.
Ultimately control goes to controller.
So jwt util we know that we have added this method to validate it.
And in the security config see that.
We already have this for authentication.
I have added it.
I've created an object of validation filter, this filter which we have created.
Right.
So this is again a filter know at the rate component.
So we have to create an object of it.
So that's why I'm creating an object of it.
New filter.
And it required only authentication manager object.
So that's why I am passing this authentication manager because it need only this okay.
And uh yes.
So that's what this one I already told you.
Now this filter which we have created, we have to put it into some space into the filter chain.
Right.
So I am adding this filter after after this JWT authentication filter.
So this is my validation filter I am adding it after this JWT authentication filter.
So my first is let's say some security context filter by default.
Second I have put is JWT authentication filter and after that it was username password authentication
filter.
And now I am putting validation filter after this authentication filter JWT validation filter.
So I'm specifying its place after this okay.
And so I've created a filter.
And in the manager I have added that hey this is the provider.
I also need to add uh and what else.
Yes.
For this provider you need to create an object because this is the authentication provider at the rate
component is not there because this is the all framework authentication provider child of this one.
Right.
So I'm creating authentication provider object.
It required JWT user and user data service.
So I'm passing it.
So everything is almost similar to what we have done previously in the generate token.
So clear this part how validation is done and we have used the complete framework itself.
So again I am registering a user I got into the DB okay SJ 123 role underscore user I am generating
a token right.
Passing a username password.
What would happen is our authentication filter will catch Dao provider will use it to compare the username
password.
Ultimately filter will generate a token and return it to the authorization header.
Now I am trying to access any restricted resource.
I have to pass this token into this authorization bearer token and pass this.
Okay.
Now what would happen is our filter get invoked filter get invoked.
We have taken the token out of the header authorization.
We have created a new authentication object passed to the authentication manager.
Authentication manager will call to our provider.
Provider will validate it and first it will support.
Yes.
And then it will pass it.
And then it will validate it.
And it will put it into the security context and filter to filter.
After all the filters it will goes to our controller.
Controller will yes fetch data successfully and return okay.
So controller logic is business logic.
It has to fetch the user.
But yeah I just uh.
System.out.println.
Something fetch user successfully.
Okay, but got it.
How I am doing the validate validate.
If you pass try to pass the invalid token I pass like hyphen invalid.
This is not a valid token, right?
I'm passing invalid.
So here if you see it's a forbidden authentication got failed okay.
The control didn't reach till the controller itself will fail it.
Okay.
So this.
Validate and extract username.
Okay.
So this will fail.
It will say bad credential exception.
It will throw this exception invalid JWT token.
Bad credential exception.
Ultimately the request will fail.
The IT do filter will not Chaning will not happen controller till controller it will not reach.
Okay, now another thing come is refresh token.
We have to refresh it.
Generally access tokens are short lived.
Okay, like five minutes.
In our case we are creating a token for 15 minutes right here.
If you see that we are creating a token where is JWT util.
Yeah.
So expiry minute.
While creating a token we provided 15.
So for 15 minutes.
We are creating a token.
So just think from a shoe of a user that hey, after 15 minutes I again have to provide a username password.
And one thing also question comes to that why only for 15 minutes?
Why can't we have it for one day, two day, ten days?
So for security purpose.
So you know that in from the previous video.
The thing is with the token, if it get leaked, there is no way.
Right?
You can invalidate the token before its expiry.
So that's why it is always recommended that the access token should be short lived.
Okay.
And since it is short lived, let's say five minutes, do we require our customers?
After five minutes you again put username password.
That is not feasible.
So that's where refresh tokens come into the picture.
So access token get expired then refresh token which is generally long lived.
Most probably five days seven days two days okay is used to get new access token without requiring username
and password.
Okay, then all we have to do is keep the refresh token safe.
That's all.
Okay, so we will see that how again first thing first we are creating a filter.
But yeah.
Now see the frame.
First thing when generating a token again I am going back to the first API generate token.
Okay.
What it was doing is it will validate from db.
If matches it will generate the token.
Now it will again have to pass one more refresh token.
Two things.
So one token access token.
Second is refresh token okay.
So that is the first thing I am doing it.
So in the existing JWT authentication filter this red box right?
So first one, we have already created a token for 15 minutes, which is an access token I am putting
into authorization bearer.
Okay.
I am putting into authorization bearer.
Refresh token.
I am creating again the same JWT generate token.
I am creating one more token but creating it for seven days.
Creating it for seven days.
Okay.
And since this is a refresh token I am not putting into an header I am putting into a cookie.
So see, there are two ways.
First way is that you return this refresh token in response body okay, so that client has to onus is
on the client to store it locally, store it or in memory okay.
Another is use a cookie.
And in the cookie we have something let's say HTTP only.
It prevents JavaScript from accessing it I think in front end JavaScript there is something called a
document, something right through which we can access the cookies with if set HTTP only set to true.
You can't do it okay.
And also you can put set secure equals to true means it would be sent only over Https okay.
And we can also send that set path means only when this API is hit slash refresh hyphen token okay then
only cookie available for the refresh endpoint.
This cookie, whatever we are putting into the cookie, generally it is stored in the browser and the
browser will send it for all the requests.
Generally it's a cookie, right?
So we are making sure that hey browser only send it when this path is hit slash refresh token.
Don't add it otherwise for all the requests.
So with this three things we can make our refresh token secure.
We don't allow access it.
We are not storing it somewhere in local.
Otherwise, if you are sending in the body then client has to store it somewhere.
So we are not storing it.
We are keeping it into the browser only are we are.
We are not allowing JavaScript to access it.
We are allowing it over HTTP and browser will only add this refresh token when refresh token endpoint
is hit okay.
But this is just one way of implementation.
Based on your application usage, you can change the how you want to send back the refresh token.
That depends, but this is just my opinion how it should be.
Okay, so the first I am done is that during the generate token, I have also put a logic to return
the refresh token also.
Okay.
You can also ask one question that hey, why for access token we are not putting into like cookie and
all this thing, is it not?
Uh.
safe, is it?
Our access token is not vulnerable.
It is actually.
But here, if you see, that's why we call it that.
It is a short lived.
So generally five minutes only for six minutes.
It is valid.
So since it is for short lived the risk is very less.
Okay.
But since, uh, refresh cookies or refresh tokens are long lived, that's why we have to secure it.
Very well.
Okay.
But this is a vast topic.
You can say that.
Is it still a secure or not?
But yeah, different application, different requirement, different way to return it.
But the core thing here is which generate token, we have to return the refresh token also that we have
done it.
So this is the first thing we have done it.
Second thing I am writing my own refresh filter.
Now once this happened now let's say the token got expired.
Now user has to refresh it.
So it will call refresh token endpoint Okay.
And I have to validate the refresh token.
And if it is validated, I need to generate a new access token.
So I have created a new filter JWT refresh filter again a child of one per request filter.
I want to make it run only one time.
So here see that I am only interested when this endpoint is hit.
If any other endpoint is hit, this filter has nothing to do with it.
Go ahead for the next filters.
Yeah.
If this endpoint is hit refresh token, proceed further.
So what I am doing first extracting the JWT from the request.
Okay.
So user has passed the refresh token in the.
Header right.
So I have to take out this extract it.
So I am extracting it.
Uh so this it is not passed into the header.
It is passed into the cookie refresh token we have discussed.
Right.
It is passed into the cookie.
So I'm reading the cookie.
Cookie.
From there I am taking out the refresh token field.
So that's what we put right in the cookie refresh token field.
And this token would only be available when this endpoint is hit refresh token.
So this I'm hitting this are querying this key so that I can get a value I got a refresh token I once
you got a refresh token what is the next step.
Which filter does it creates an authentication object.
Now what this refresh filter has to do.
Refresh filter has to do validate the token.
And if you remember that we have one already provider which does the validation.
So I am creating a JWT authentication token.
Right.
What we have seen in the second I think third step.
Right.
Like where we are validating the token.
So the same authentication object I am using, I just set the refresh token here and I pass the authentication
manager authenticate.
So now in the authentication manager here if you see.
Authentication manager I still have the two provider only Douw authentication provider and JWT authentication
provider.
So JWT authentication provider will take care of it because it knows how to handle JWT authentication
token.
So this is the provider.
So here if you see we are already we are not doing anything.
It's all existing code which we have seen in the previous step.
So it get the token whether it's access token, refresh token it doesn't care.
It just get a token and it will validate it.
And once it is validated, it fetch the user details and return the fully authenticated object.
Instead of this place, we can extend our authentication token itself JWT authentication token to store
the user details itself.
But for now, let's say I am using this authentication token, but no code.
This all we have done previously in the previous step.
So I'm using the same token and call this.
So ultimately this provider will get invoked.
It will say that yes I support this token.
It will validate it and returns.
Now if it is authenticated means refresh token is valid.
Refresh token is valid.
What we have to do is we have to generate a token.
So I'm calling jwt util generate token for 15 minutes.
It is valid.
Expiry time is 15 minutes.
And putting a header authorization beer and added this token.
Do I have to do filter dot Chen.
Do I have to reach till controller?
No, I don't have to restrict controller.
That's why I put I didn't put do filter here.
Okay I will return it from here itself.
So filter chain is also we created a refresh filter.
Also we created provider.
We reuse it.
We didn't create anything.
Uh JWT authentication token, we reused it JWT util we reuse it.
We generate and validate already there.
And here if you see in the security config what we have written newly is this.
We have to create our filter object of it.
So we have created an object and we have to put this filter into the chain.
I am putting add filter after I am putting this filter.
New filter after this validation filter.
Okay, rest is all what we have done.
So if you see that first I am registering the user in db I got the data.
Second, I am generating the token authentication filter will get invoked.
It will call Dao authentication provider, validate it and ultimately generate now this C access token.
And in the cookie refresh token I got it.
Now I am calling refresh token.
What would happen is this endpoint will get invoked.
Which endpoint this one refresh filter get invoked.
And this will say that yes ultimately it go next it will validate it.
And if it is validated it will generate a token uh, into the header response like this.
So this is the new token which will generate.
And in the refresh token which we have to pass, it is automatically coming from the cookie.
What we have in this cookie right.
E g b whatever.
So that will automatically pass in this one request refresh token.
And our filter will read from the cookie, validate it and generate a token in the header authorization
bearer okay.
And this is very important To make it secure.
So the whole code is there in the git link.
I will share in the member community section so you can check the git link and.
But I think this would be totally clear right.
Now the last part is authorization.
It is very very similar to what form and basic authentication we have done.
Very simple.
Just see this.
Let's say for this endpoint I need to have a role user.
That's all I have added this dot request matchers whatever the endpoint, whatever the role you wanted
it.
Okay.
So now here if you see I am creating a user and with the role admin.
So in DB I have SJ 123 and the role is admin.
I have created a token with this username I get one token.
Now I am trying to access a user API.
What would happen is I am passing this token whatever I have get into the authorization header bearer
token.
I got forbidden.
Why?
Because this API required role user.
But this has admin, so mismatch happen.
So there is something called authorization filter comes into the picture which we have already seen
in the form.
And basic authentication authorization filter will come into the picture.
Right.
And uh it will throw this exception.
So control will not reach till controller itself.
Okay guys.
So please go through it again if you find it very lengthy and uh, little confusing because this is
very, very important topic.
All we are using is framework.
This part, this pink part only we are writing actually.
Okay.
So if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further in the comment section, but I hope this video would be helpful.
Uh thank you guys.
Bye.

--- What is OAuth 2.0: Explained ---

Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do OAuth 2.0.
Okay.
So let's start it without wasting any time OAuth stands for open authorization.
So it's an authorization framework.
It enables secure third party access to user protected data.
Now let's understand this two points with this flow.
So this is user.
Let's say this user is already signed in to his Gmail account.
This is his Gmail account.
And user is already logged in right.
User is already logged in.
So this is it has it's protected data.
So this user it has its complete profile right.
It's set up all there into the Gmail account.
Now it want to log in to any other Website.
Let's say that certain x, y, z website it want to log in here.
It want to log in here.
So you might be seeing that there.
We do get an option that right sign in using Gmail you get different options.
So now let's say if user use this sign in using Gmail what it is trying to do is it is authorizing this
third party.
So XYZ website is a third party, right.
And it is authorizing this third party.
Hey, you go ahead, use my protected data from the Gmail.
I am authenticating you.
Right.
So Gmail will provide the information which is required to this third party.
And after that you would be able to log in to this XYZ website.
And you will see that.
You will see that.
Hey.
Welcome user.
So it automatically get your username and everything from the Gmail.
So there are four important roles.
Or you can say that actors involved in it.
This process in this process four actors involved.
First one is resource owner.
Who is this resource owner in this flow?
This guy is the resource owner.
So now let's say that I am the person who has this Gmail account Shreyansh.
I am already signed in over here.
And this guy is me.
Shreyansh.
So who is the resource owner here?
This this me Shreyansh is the resource owner.
Then second one is client.
Who is the client?
The client is one which initiate the request.
So in this case, let's say I want to I want to access Facebook.
And here I am clicking that sign in using Gmail.
So now in this case Gmail.
Facebook is the one which wanted my protected data, right?
So who is the client here?
This third one is Authorization server.
So now let's say that Gmail.
So there would be another you can say that Gmail authorization server.
So generally sometimes you will see that even in Gmail itself one one service itself taking two roles.
It is also doing authorization uh part also and also the resource like it hosts the resources.
Right.
So but for simplification and in most of the cases generally these are two different components.
Right.
So there would be one Gmail authorization server, which takes care of authorizing.
Right.
So this is the third component.
And the fourth is resource hosting server.
So I am the resource owner.
And where is my all the resource present currently in the Gmail.
In Gmail knows about me everything.
My date of birth, my name, my email ID right, all my data is present into Gmail, right?
And Gmail is hosting it.
So this is the hosting server.
My resource are present into Gmail and this is the server which is hosting my protected data.
So here in this case Gmail is your resource hosting server.
So you got this four resources.
You have to be very clear because we are going to see the flow using this only.
So now these are the four actors involved in it.
And we will see a flow using this for actors now.
But before starting the flow, I will tell you there are five mechanism to get the token.
Or you can say that to get to authorize a client.
So one very very important and popular is authorization code grant.
Right.
This one will also cover this.
But these are just normally not you can say that encouraged.
But this is the important part.
Authorization code grant right and refresh token grant is also used.
But we will cover all right.
So you will get to know that.
But it's a mechanism used by client to obtain access token.
You will get to know about access token and all.
So don't worry about it.
And now let's see a flow of authorization code.
Grant this one I am telling you the flow of for this.
So these are the four clients Resource Owner client, Gmail Authorization server, and Gmail Resource
server.
Right.
The use cases that I am the resource owner, I want to log into Instagram.
And I am already logged into my Gmail.
So Gmail has known about my name, age, date of birth, email id address.
So Gmail I have all the data Instagram wanted to use this to help me to sign in.
And Gmail also has its authorization server.
So now what's the flow?
So I am telling you about authorization code grant now first.
So now first Instagram has to do a registration with authorization server.
So it has to do register.
So if Instagram has to show an icon here that says sign in using Gmail.
Sign in using Gmail.
So first it has to register to this authorization server.
And this Gmail authorization server will return two things client ID and client secret.
Right.
So now Gmail authorization server knows about this Instagram.
Right.
So this is your client ID.
This is your client secret, which only authorization server and only client should know this secret.
Okay.
So first client has done its registration and got its client ID and secret.
Now user want to log in to an Insta.
So I am the resource owner.
Let's say I come to.
I'm the resource owner.
I want to log into Instagram and I instead of putting my username password, I clicked on sign in using
Gmail.
I am already have a Gmail account.
I have all the information there and I chose this option that hey sign in using Gmail.
Now what client will do?
Client will redirect me to authorization server.
Gmail authorization server.
So it will redirect me to the authorization server where I have to authenticate myself.
I if I am not logged in to Gmail, I have to provide my username ID of the Gmail and I have to authenticate,
right.
And also provide the consent.
So you might have seen that you are Gmail would might show you you are providing this this this permission
to Instagram.
Are you okay with it.
And you have to provide yes.
Provide it.
So you are providing nothing but a consent okay.
Once you provide the consent authorization server, will goes to the instance and provides the authorization
code.
One code will be given, which is known as authorization code.
Now, using this authorization code, Insta again call the authorization server and ask for the token.
Hey, give me the token now.
Now what would happen is when you ask for a token or Gmail authorization server will provide you two
things.
Access token and refresh token.
Right.
So access token is a short lived maybe let's say 10 minutes or 15 minutes.
Right.
But if it is expired you can use refresh token, which is a generally long lived token.
Right.
To get a new access token we will come that in later.
But currently you have to understand the flow.
So what happen is when Instagram asks for token using the authorization code, authorization server
will provide two token access token and refresh token.
Okay.
Now using this access token, Instagram will go to this Gmail resource server where my data is hosted
name, age, address, wherever.
Right.
And it says that, hey, this is the access token.
Give me this data.
Now what it will do is this Gmail resource server what it will do.
It will go call the authorization server and say, hey, validate this token.
I got this token.
Is it valid or not.
This authorization server validate this right and return whether it's a valid or invalid right.
If it is invalid, it will discard the request.
If it is valid, then it will provide information whatever it is asked.
Let's say your profile.
So your name age email ID would be shared to Instagram.
And after that it would sign in.
You successful, right?
If you are if your token is not valid and you are not authorized, it might certain for XX might be
401 for unauthorized right.
So this is generally the flow for this authorization code grant.
So now let's see the request and response for each flow.
But please note right.
Please follow the official documentation like the exact API names or more parameters.
This API names which I have taken.
This is just for like to help you better clarify, right?
This might not be an exact API names, right?
So that is just I want to say that hey, follow a proper Rfc's right?
Rfc's are generally you can say that official documentation for OAuth, you will see different versions
for explaining different different parts, but I'm explaining the APIs and response by taking some sample
API name.
Right?
Which makes sense in the context.
Okay.
Now first registration process.
So what is the first step?
Instagram.
The client has to register itself to the authorization server.
So it has to do the registration.
Okay.
So this is the register.
So this is the post API register.
And what it says that hey this is the client name let's say my my app name.
So here it might be passing let's say Instagram Instagram.
And it will pass the redirect URI.
So it three three URIs.
You can give max three URIs you can give where you want redirect to happen.
Right.
So so it's generally the callback.
So if you see many times this Gmail has to redirect right at many places.
In many places it has to redirect.
So.
You can define three redirect URIs during registration itself.
So what is the response.
In response you will get two things client ID and client secret.
Okay.
So registration process clear this client ID and client secret.
Client secret is very very confidential information which is only known by client and authorization
server right.
It is generally used to authenticate the client.
Let's say in this case Instagram.
Two authorization server.
Okay.
Authorization.
This is done.
Okay.
This is done.
Now the second is when the owner, let's say in this case I clicked on sign in using Gmail on Instagram.
What it will has to do is it will has to redirect me to the authorization server.
So how it does.
It invoke this Instagram now going to invoke this API authorize okay.
And what all the parameter it passed while this API first send that response type which is code.
So what this response type means this field specify that the desired response type from the authorization
server.
I want you to send me authorization code in the response.
That's what it specifies.
Or you can say that tell the authorization server what is the expectation of the client.
Here.
Response type should be some code authorization code.
It will pass its client ID the client ID got in the first step.
It will pass the redirect URI where the callback should have happened.
But if you see that redirect URI is optional if it is not present, then which redirect URI should be
used?
Authorization server will use any one of the URIs which are defined during at the time of registration.
Okay, so redirect URI is optional.
If provided, it should match with one of the URI provided during registration.
In registration, you can provide three URIs.
Right.
And during this fetching the authorization code part, if you redirect URI if you are passing then it
should be one of the redirect URI which you have defined at the time of registration.
Right.
If not provided, one will be picked from the list during the registration which you have given.
Okay.
Then there comes the scope.
So scope is like Instagram.
Want to access what all information from your Gmail?
So it is a space kind of thing.
So let's say I want email access your profile access or certain address access.
So there might be different different scopes right.
So these are space separated.
And you can tell like hey I want the scope for all this data right.
So whatever the data which you wanted to access this client, your client, it will add it here in the
scope.
And the last comes the state.
So state is some random value like SJ 111 some random value.
It helps in protecting CSRF.
Uh attack.
I'll tell you how, but first understand this API right.
So.
Instagram has now.
Redirect owner to the authorization server.
Right.
It has called this API authorize and pass this data.
Now what response it will get right.
So user will do the authentication there in the Gmail side.
If it is not login it might have to provide username password login to the Gmail.
And then Gmail will show you a consent.
Hey shreyansh like Instagram?
Want to access your email profile and address?
Are you providing the consent for it?
If I click yes, then what it will do is it will redirect now from the Gmail authorization server.
It will take me to the redirect API which I have provided here.
If I haven't provided there, it would be picked from the one which has been defined in the at the time
of registration and in the.
It will pass me some authorization code here and the state.
Right.
So now at this time when I am authenticated and provide the consent authorization server calls the redirect
URI, the callback URI, and pass the authorization code.
Right now Instagram got the authorization code.
Now.
But you can ask me, right?
Hey.
Authorization code.
Got it.
I understood what is the purpose of this state in the request.
In the request, I am setting this state, let's say some random value SJ 111.
And in the response authorization server also returning me the same SJ 111.
What is the purpose?
So see state is recommended.
It's not mandatory but it's it is recommended it prevents CSRF attack.
So now let's understand this.
I'll tell you this attack right.
So what happen is let's say there is an attacker and this is me owner Shreyansh.
I am trying to add let's say Instagram.
Right.
And this is the attacker and it has Gmail authorization server.
Okay.
So now let's say attacker has call at the rate authorized API.
And in return it got the.
Authorization code.
It has got the authorization code right.
This part whatever the authorization code here.
Now this authorization code attacker has saved it.
It didn't use it.
You can use authorization code only once.
An attacker didn't use it.
Now, let's say that I am the legitimate owner and this is the legitimate client.
I am trying to log in to this using Gmail, right?
So in the Gmail authorization server I have called the.
Authorize request.
This request I have sent this.
Now I am waiting for this response where I will get my authorization code right.
But let's say that if this attacker put its authorization code and they said, hey, this is the response,
right?
If it send its response code to me now, Instagram might say that hey, okay, I have I am already waiting.
I have already hit the authorize and I'm waiting for Gmail authorization server to send me the authorization
code.
But what happen is in mid attacker intercepted the request and it send you its own authorization code.
Now Instagram will say that.
Yes I got the authorization code.
Now using this authorization code what it will do is it will request for token and Gmail will provides
the token.
Okay.
Now you got the authorization code for the attacker.
Now Instagram will pass this authorization code attacker authorization code and ask for token.
Hey provide me token.
Now Gmail will provide you the token.
But this token is generated from what attacker authorization code, not the Instagram which it wanted.
Now ultimately using this token, it will get.
It will call the Gmail now.
And hey, give me the details of this token which I get.
Now to whom details it will send mine or attacker.
It will send the attacker one.
It will send the attacker one because this authorization code is related to the attacker.
So ultimately what I do is I will get sign in to Instagram using attacker.
Just see about an app where you login using Gmail of an attacker, and there you upload certain files
where it will upload to.
Let's say you want to upload certain to drive Google drive where it will get upload to.
It will get uploaded to attacker one attacker Google drive.
Right.
So this is the CSRF attack cross-site request forgery right.
So this is how uh state comes into the picture where it protects the legitimate client.
How so?
Now here, if you see that attacker and this is the Gmail attacker, call the authorized API and it
will get its, uh, code.
Authorization code.
Now attacker saves it.
Now I am the one which is trying to log in to Instagram.
So Shreyansh wanted to log in to Instagram using Gmail.
So it Instagram made request to authorization server, call this authorized API authorize.
I have set this state some random unique value which is very difficult to guess, right?
So I have set said also the state, let's say a state.
I have said SJ111 right.
Let's say some unique value which is very difficult to understand, difficult to generate or guess.
Now let's say attacker somehow pass me its response.
Hey, this is the response your authorization code.
Right.
So attacker tried to send me its authorization code.
Right.
And in the state it might be passing some random number in the state.
But now what I will do is that I will compare the response which I am getting the authorization code
and its state.
So I will compare the state, the one which I sent SJ 111, and the authorization code which I am getting.
Also it has a state, so is it equal?
If state is not present I will discard this request Us if a state is present, but it is not matching
with what I have sent, then also I have discarded this because it is not might be.
It's a CSRF attack because this response is not for the one which I have sent, the one authorized request
which I have sent.
I have set the state as 111, and when the Gmail authorization server returns me the authorization code,
it will also pass this state same as 111.
Then I will compare.
Hey, I got the authorization code.
This state matches with what I sent.
If it matches, I will accept this authorization code.
So you got it.
What is the purpose of the state?
Now, using this authorization code, what client will do is it will try to fetch the token.
So now there is another Post token API.
So it will put a grant type as authorization code because we are doing the first one authorization code
grant.
So the grand type is authorization code.
What is the code you got?
So authorization code.
Then the first step we got in the response right.
Which server side authorization code.
So we pass it that the redirect URI.
It's an optional.
If you don't pass the redirect URI the one will be choose from the registration at the time of registration
which you have defined the client ID and client secret.
So now here, if you see that in this step the client secret is used, the client has to authenticate
itself that I am authenticated one.
And this secret is the confidential which clients get during the registration okay.
Because using this token you can access protected data.
So client is also need to authenticate itself.
So grant type the grant code which you get in the previous tab, the client ID client secret right.
And in the response what you get is you got access token through which you can access the protected
data.
It is a short lived token.
Expires in 3600.
This is in seconds generally.
So it's like 33 seconds is one hour.
Right.
So it will expired in one hour.
You can change it.
This is just an example.
Right.
So generally it's a short live like.
Expires in let's say 15 minutes 30 minutes or whatever.
And token type is bearer.
What does bearer means adds.
It tells the client that you should pass this token in the authorization header whenever you want to
access the protected data.
And one thing you will get is refresh token.
Refresh token means.
So if your access token expires, you can generate a new token using this refresh token.
Right?
I will show you the refresh token part also.
Now this token value right.
Access token which you get either it can be a JWT token or a plain string itself, right?
So JWT.
I will explain maybe in the next topic.
What are the format of JWT, what all information it can have.
But this token you can either be plain string or JWT token itself.
Okay, now you got now the client Instagram got the access token.
Now what it will do now it will call the Gmail whatever the endpoint and get your data right.
Whatever the in the scope it has got the token or code for.
So now for all that scope, email address, whatever the scope would be, it can fetch the data and
using that it will help you to sign in.
But now let's say that your token got expired.
So what you have you have to renew it.
So how you will renew it using refresh token.
And.
this refresh token is your another grant type, right.
So this authorization grant type is nothing.
It's a mechanism to obtain the access token.
So using grant type refresh grant type you can get the access token.
So this is how it is.
So I am calling the token again grant type is now refresh token right.
And I will pass the refresh token value here in this refresh token whichever I got right redirect URI
optional.
If you don't provide it, one will be used from the registration time which you have provided the client
ID and the client secret.
So this is the response.
You will get a new access token right.
And the new refresh token.
Right.
So if this expires you can generate a new token using this new refresh token Likewise.
So this complete flow is clear.
This complete flow API request and response is clear.
This is for authorization code grant.
This is very important.
So now there is another grant type is called implicit grant.
This is generally not recommended to use.
Generally authorization code grant is the one which is highly used.
But still it is better to discuss about this.
So here in the authorization code grant type what used to happen.
Instagram and Gmail authorization server.
It will ask for first authorize.
Hey give me and it will get code.
And then using this code it will get the token.
So in the implicit there is no there is no two process.
You get the token in the one process itself.
So in the authorize The response type is token earlier in the authorization code.
Grant.
What is the response type code?
Hey, I wanted the expectation of the client is from the authorization server that I want code.
Authorization code in this expectation is token response type it is expecting is token.
You have to provide the client ID right?
Whatever the client ID you have to provide the redirect URIs optional scope and state.
Right.
So here in the response you will directly get access token value right in the whatever the redirect
URI, you will provide it right here.
Here in this URI itself you will get the access token information.
There is no refresh token in implicit grant.
Why?
Because there is nothing like a like there is no two steps here.
It's just like an authorized during the authorized itself.
You can ask a new token.
Then there is something called resource owner password credentials grant.
Right.
Resource owner password credentials grant.
Now in this here, if you see in the token API.
In the token API what happen is grant type I will choose password right.
This is the grant type.
So there is no authorized API.
So here in this case there is no authorization code.
No authorization call.
So here I am providing the resource owner.
I am providing my Gmail username.
My Gmail password client is passing Instagram is passing its client ID secret.
The grant type it has chosen is the password.
Like this is the grant type for this one and the scope which it wanted to access.
So in the authorization code grant type here we are passing the code.
Right.
And for how to get that code using authorize.
But here I don't need code actually I am passing my username password itself.
So that's why there is no need for authorize API itself.
It is directly calling this token API.
Right.
So I think this token API is post right.
We can double check.
So I am directly calling this token API and passing my username password itself.
Right.
Client id secret and all the scope which I wanted to access.
And in the response it will return me the access token refresh token also.
Right.
And using if this get expires using refresh token I can renew it and during renew using refresh token
you don't need to pass the username password.
So grant type is let's say refresh token right.
You can pass client ID client secret and also the refresh token.
You can pass this one.
So you don't need to provide username password at the time of refresh token usage of refresh token to
get a new access.
Okay.
And the last one is credential client credential grant.
So in this case generally what this scenario is like when resource owner is self is the client.
So generally earlier it was a scenario like this right Shreyansh Instagram and then Gmail.
So here resource owner is different.
Client is different.
But in this client credential grant client is also this resource owner is also this.
So whatever the data it is trying to access from let's say Gmail whatever authorization server.
The client is itself is the resource owner.
In that case, client credentials grant is used.
Right.
So it is calling the token.
It's passing is client ID client secret and the grant type it says that client credentials.
Right.
And the scope and the response it will get is access token.
Again there is no refresh token required in this because it's just like if you want if this got expired,
you want to generate a new call the token pass your client ID secret.
You will get new, right?
It's easy.
You don't have to pass any username, password or any code with the same request you can get generate
a new token.
So there is no need for authorization call itself and also there is no refresh token also.
Okay guys thank you and I for any questions ping me.
We can discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Spring Boot Security - OAUTH2 Authentication Implementation ---

On this site.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in this video we will see an OAuth two implementation.
So if you have not seen the previous video where I have explained about what is OAuth and what are the
different grant types.
So I would highly recommend that.
Kindly have a look at it once before jumping into the implementation.
Okay, so I will give you a very, very quick recap.
What is OAuth?
OAuth stands for Open Authorization Framework.
It enables a third party access right secure third party access to user protected data.
We have a different grant types like authorization code grant, implicit grant client credentials.
And there are two more right which we have already discussed in the previous video.
So today I will do an implementation in Spring Boot for this authorization code grant flow.
So before jumping into the implementation, let's have a quick recap of what is authorization code grant
flow looks like.
So consider the resource owner, which is us.
You, me.
So we have our data, right?
Where in, let's say in one of the resource server, let's say Gmail.
We have our data like mail, like some profile picture, Gmail, email ID username like we have and
mobile number.
We have our data present into the Gmail.
And Gmail has one of its authorization server also.
Okay.
And this is client or Insta.
Or you can say that any third party app, third party app which we have to grant access to our data
but securely, how we can do that?
We have seen that already so quickly.
First, this third party app has to register themselves, register itself into the authorization server,
let's say in this case with the Gmail authorization server, they have to register this third party
app.
So Gmail will send them the client ID and secret which this third party app will store it.
Now what would happen is let's say that I am going and saying that, hey, this third party app, let's
say I want to sign in, but I want to sign in using Gmail.
I don't have an account on here.
The first time I am coming and I'm choosing sign in using Gmail.
So what it will do is it will redirect me to this authorization server, right?
This third party app redirect me to the authorization server and it will send the client ID also in
the request.
So what authorization server will do?
It will give me a username password field where the resource owner I have to provide my username my
password of the Gmail right means I am providing the consent that yes, hey, Gmail, allow this third
party app to access my this data.
Okay.
Once I provide this this authorization server, return the authorization code back in the response using
this authorization code, this third party app makes another API call to fetch the token right.
And inside the request it will pass code, client ID, and the secret which it initially got right and
it requests for the token.
Once it got this, all the details authorization server, it will return back the token.
It could be the JWT token possible, right?
There are different type of token like opaque token JWT token.
So it might return the token access token.
And now using this token it will hit the API of this authorization server.
Let's say Gmail API, right?
Gmail API.
Hey, fetch me the details of, let's say mobile number or username and email ID depend upon what the
third party want access to, right?
With this JWT or access token, with the OAuth two model, we can access the API and through which we
can fetch the user details.
Okay, now it got the token.
So it has in the request it has to pass the token okay.
Now once this resource server got the token it will pass it to the authorization server.
Validate it if it's valid.
Like if the token is valid it will return the details.
And based on that it will make sure that sign in is successful okay.
If it is not valid it will throw an error like failure ultimately.
So this is a very high level flow which we have seen.
Now we will implement it.
But again, before we jump into the implementation, we have to understand what is the difference between
Oauth2 and Oidc.
Now you can ask me hey, what is Oidc?
Why it comes into the picture.
So again, first the difference is full form is Oauth2 is like open authorization.
Oidc stands for OpenID connect.
What is the purpose used for?
OAuth is used for authorization.
Meanwhile, Oidc is used for authentication.
What is the difference?
See here.
In this OAuth two we grant secure third party access to user protected data.
Means third party app.
Like in this case, uh, we are saying Insta can have access to my, let's say all the Gmail emails.
My calendar data depends upon what all the APIs are exposed.
Okay.
So it can invoke the endpoint passing the token and fetch all my data protected data.
But Oidc is mainly specified specific for authentication only.
So it's a layer built on top of Oauth2 only and unable the third party app to verify the identity of
the user by authentication server.
Okay, so understand the difference with this here.
The only difference comes at this part.
So here it gets the token right.
Once it gets the token.
If you are using plain or two you can use this token.
Pass it to this resource server and you can access whatever data you want.
Right.
All the protected data you can access of mine.
But with the Oidc, whatever the token you will get, generally it is known as ID token, ID token,
which is again in the form of JWT only.
But this ID token has all the info which is required for authentication purpose.
You don't need to call any API and fetch any other data in the Oidc.
This token itself has all the limited very minimal information which is required just for authentication.
Okay, this token ID token is not understood by resource server.
This ID token is specifically for this third party app only that hey, from this token you will get
a minimal information.
Through this you can authenticate the user, but this ID token cannot be used to access my protected
data.
But with the OAuth two, whatever the token you will get with that, you can pass it to the resource
server.
They understand that by passing it to authorization server and then they can you can fetch the protected
data.
I hope you got the difference.
Or two is like for authorization, you can fetch the protected data for Oidc only for authentication.
Uh, once the token is received by the third party app, they don't generally pass it back to the resource
server to access more data.
The token itself has all the information to require to authenticate.
So token is generated is access token, which is generally opaque or JWT form okay.
So consider like a GitLab use case.
Generally they return opaque token.
Opaque token is not understood by the third party app only it is understood by the authorization server.
Okay, so use by a third party app to call the resource server APIs to access user protected data.
Okay, so that's what I told you in the plain or to once the that token is received, either JWT or
opaque token.
Okay, so this token is used by the third party app to fetch the to call the APIs through which they
can fetch the protected data.
But here in the token generated by Oidc is that ID token which is JWT form only.
Plus, since it is built on top of OAuth two, it also gets an access token also.
So it gives us both the capability.
If you want I can go ahead and call the API also and fetch more information.
Otherwise this ID token itself is contain all the information for authentication.
So ID token is a JWT token which is meant for third party app only.
Remember this?
I'm emphasizing on this that it is meant for third party app.
This ID token is not sent End to this resource server.
It is not sent.
Once it gets the token, it has the minimal information.
It has the minimal user info which can be required for authentication.
Okay, we will see that.
But first remember the difference.
So the scope scope is like read write in the plane or two in the plane or two.
Generally scope is that read write like.
You can even call post APIs for writing you are reading means you can allowing the third party app to
call the APIs only get APIs, or you want to call even allowing them to call the write APIs.
Here it is OpenID scope is OpenID.
OpenID means it indicates the authorization server that this third party app is only one to authenticate
user.
Okay, so there is a scope called OpenID when the ID token is generated by the Authentication Server
authorization server.
It will contain very minimal information in the token JWT okay, which is required only for authentication.
No read write access is given in the token itself.
Very minimal information is sent.
Okay, if the difference is clear, let's jump into the implementation.
So what is the step one?
Step one is.
The third party app.
Now in this case who is the third party app?
Our spring boot app which we which we are writing.
So third party app.
We have to register it so that in the response we can get client ID and secret key.
So third party app registration to authentication server.
This is the first step.
So third party app is our Spring Boot app authorization server.
Currently we can pick auth zero and GitLab okay.
So we can register ourselves yourself and get the client ID and the client secret.
So we'll see that.
So here if you see if you open the GitLab there you will see application in the settings.
You will see application inside that application you give the application name I give my Springboot
app the redirect URI right.
The redirect URI is that uh here if you see.
Once the owner authenticate and provide consent, it redirect it calls a redirect URI and passes the
authorization code in the response.
So we have to set that redirect URI and the scope which we have to select.
So I have select the open ID because I am only interested in authentication okay.
So only also gives read only access to the user profile.
Right.
So not much very minimal information grant permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID connect.
So specifically for authentication.
And once you save the application, you will get client ID and the client secret, which you can copy
it from here okay.
Similarly in the OAuth auth zero registration, what we can do is we have to provide the name okay.
And here we have all the Oidc is I turn it on.
It also provide what signature algorithm which we have to use.
I choose Rs 250 Rs 256, which is like a private public key.
And uh, like in the JWT, whatever the signing algorithm would be.
So here I am defining that one.
We have already seen that in the JWT uh, part.
And ultimately I will get my client ID and the client secret here.
Okay.
So we can see here like so here if you see I open the GitLab.
So now in this part if you go to the settings click on Edit Profile okay.
So there you will see application.
If you click on the application you will see this.
Like you can add an application I can add a new application also where you can give a name redirect
URI and what is the scope you wanted to select.
And once you do save application it would be like this.
It will come like your client ID and the secret.
Secret is like you can copy it one one time after that, uh, it will remove from here just for safety
purpose so you can renew the secret.
Okay, so the old secret would become invalid.
And the scope I choose is OpenID authenticate only similarly for the auth zero.
Also, it's the same thing.
You can open auth zero and you can create add new application.
And then you can add it like this.
Okay, so here what I am doing is I am registering myself my application, and I am getting a client
ID and the client secret.
Okay.
So this id what I have to do is I have to store it.
Okay.
So in the application dot properties I am saving this details now okay.
We will come to the Pom.
But here if you see these are the configuration.
These are the for the GitLab and this is for the auth zero okay.
So two authorization servers I am adding.
So this is my client ID.
This is my client secret.
What is the scope.
Open ID okay.
What is the grant type I am using authorization code.
What are the different grant type we have right.
In OAuth two you can use anything.
But currently I'm implementing authorization code redirect URI.
I have set like okay this is the API which are authorization server has to call when they have to return
me the authorization code.
So redirect URI authorization URI is something which like I have to invoke.
So here in this case right.
See this part.
So once this part.
This part this is the URL.
This is the authorize.
This is the authorized URL okay.
And then I when I have to ask for token this is the token URL okay.
So this is all the URIs I am setting.
So what is the redirect URI authorization URI.
What is the token URI.
What is the URI issue?
Issuer URI is nothing but like who is your authorization server okay.
And Jack set URI is something like where is the public key is stored.
Like whatever the token you will receive, we have to sign.
We have to verify that token.
right?
So in asymmetric encryption, the authorization server use the private key to sign it.
And we have to verify it using public key.
So public key has to be read from where that URL okay.
So these are mostly very very standard URLs.
Right.
And mostly here if you see and in the configuration your key this part only change GitLab.
Now here we have Auth0.
So if you have any other Gmail so only all the links would be same.
Only here Gmail would come or whatever their authorization server name would be that would come.
Okay.
So these are generally known as registration ID.
So registration id I have two, one is GitLab and one is auth0 okay.
And these are the URIs which are present okay.
These are also very very standard URIs.
So like whatever the authorization server which you have and then this endpoints remains the same.
Okay.
So you will see mostly the endpoints remains the same though not much difference.
Only your authorization server becomes different.
After that the endpoints become mostly the same.
Okay.
So we have added this two information.
We have added this to authorization server and we have to add this Pom.xml spring boot starter Oauth2
client.
With this dependency all the libraries like which understand this configuration, there are certain
specific OAuth to filters code that would come to in our project.
Okay.
So we required this form.
We added this application dot properties okay.
And in the security config dot Java Okay.
So here in this case if you see that we want or to login, we don't want form.
We don't want basic.
We want OAuth to login customize with default.
Okay.
So we have added three things palm application dot properties and security config where we have to tell
the spring boot that we want to go ahead with the or to login.
And we have just added very, very basic controller not required just like one default page.
Because here we have said that right customizer with default.
So once the authentication is successful it will try to hit the default page localhost 8080 and the
default default page.
So that's where I just written hello you are logged in and one specific APIs.
If that one would be hit it will say that fetch the details.
Fetch the details successfully.
So very basic controller I have written.
So till now what we have done is we have just registered our app and based on that registration we have
set up the application dot properties.
Pom we have added the award to dependencies security config.
We have tied to the spring boot that we want to go ahead with the Oauth2 and the basic controllers we
have written.
Now let's see.
Let's try.
Only notice one thing that I have not created any user in the Spring Boot app.
User is not there.
My detail is present into GitLab or auth zero, right?
But not in the spring boot app.
So I am starting the application server.
My application server is started now I am hitting localhost 8080 url since it is like any request we
have to authenticate.
It will take me to the default login endpoint.
Since we are using.
Or to login and customize with default.
So with default login pages slash login only.
Okay.
So it will take me to the login endpoint.
So to see you will see this page to login with OAuth two two authorization server first and second.
First is auth zero.
Second is GitLab.
So where this information is coming from, this information which we have set into the application dot
properties one is GitLab, another is auth zero and the authorization server is this URI gitlab.com.
And this auth zero generally give us a custom authorization server URI.
So this URI.
Okay, now you can choose anything which you wanted to login.
Right?
So now let's say that if I choose Auth0, when I click the Auth0, it redirects me to the Auth0 login
page, right?
Now you see that I haven't written any code for all this redirection and all it's working now.
So it automatically when I click here it redirects me to the Auth0 login page.
Login to this to continue my Spring Boot app.
And here I have to provide my email address and password.
Once I did this what what is the next step.
So first is registration.
Then it will give me client ID and secret done.
Then what is the next step like uh I have to call the authorize endpoint.
So this is the authorize endpoint.
Once you click here it calls the authorize endpoint.
It goes to the authorization server.
Authorization server will show me username password page and it redirect me to the it, redirect me
with the authorization code, and using that authorization code, I will pass the token endpoint and
ultimately I will get the token and from there it will use the token.
Fetch the details and whatever the detail it will get, it will authenticate myself.
So all this thing happening in behind okay.
Once I provided the username password it will redirect, URI will get invoked.
And after this all this thing happening at the behind.
And ultimately I am get logged in.
We will see that everything what is happening in behind right.
If you see I am able to login successfully, if I hit slash user endpoint, I am able to call it.
So this is the second endpoint, right?
That is also working properly even though I have mentioned all the requests should be authenticated.
So how it is working right?
I have just given palm application dot properties security config.
All I tell to the spring boot that use OAuth to login with default and rest.
Everything works out of the box, right?
With this three things everything works fine.
So Spring Boot Security Framework provide the complete functionality of OAuth two protocol.
We don't have to code anything, but here is one twist.
When I try to access this slash user from the browser, it is working right.
But the same API when I'm hitting through postman it is asking me to like again login.
It is not yet logged in.
Why?
Why so?
Because Springboot assumed that auto login would be done on a browser, so by default it creates session
in browser.
We it creates a session.
That's why it is working.
And here I am not passing any in the cookie.
What is the session ID.
So that's why it is asking me to log in again.
Then you one question comes to your mind hey then OAuth two is stateful.
Right.
By default the spring created as a stateful, but we can make it a stateless.
Also we will see that.
But first we need to see the stateful.
What exactly how it is working behind.
Till now we we don't know how it is working till now.
All we know is that hey this I have added pom, I have added application dot properties and security
config.
That's all It worked out.
But how?
Now let's first discover that how part.
So we have already covered this part.
Registration part.
Right.
This one is clear.
You can open GitLab add application.
You can register your app similarly in auth zero.
Also you can register your app.
Now what would happen when I clicked when a user clicked on my app?
So this is now in our third party app.
This is our Spring boot app.
So now when a user click on this localhost 8080 login.
Hey I want to login.
I have to show this two pages right?
Two authorization server where user can log in with.
So what internally happen is.
So default login page generating filter get invoked.
Inside that there is a method called generate login HTML.
So there it has like if it is a OD to login unable we have to show this page and from where this get
this information.
So here if you see something like OD 2 or 2 authentication URL to client name.
So when you start an application right this get filled up from application dot properties okay.
So this has all the information.
So it just iterate over it and just show this okay.
It just show this information.
So now we know that okay.
Once I print the once I click on the login URL how I am able to see this.
Two things okay.
This filter helps in generating this page.
Now when a user click on any of the link, what would happen when user click on one of the authorization
server?
This endpoint would get invoked or two slash authorization slash registration ID.
What is the registration ID?
We have one registration ID is this.
This is known as registration registration ID.
I already told GitLab Auth0 or there if you have more.
These are known as registration ID, so whichever link you click that registration ID would get appended.
So let's say if I am clicking GitLab.
So slash two slash authorization slash GitLab this API would get invoked okay.
So when this endpoint get invoked this filter will catch it or two authorization request redirect filter
dot Java.
This filter will is also present into the security framework because of the dependency which we have
added.
So now here if you see here we have the authorization Request an authorization request.
What we have.
We have the client ID.
I told you, right.
The client ID, the third party app in our spring boot.
The client ID would get there in the request, and then it will redirect to the authorization server.
Okay.
The request got now redirected to the authorization server.
Okay.
And it invokes this API like whatever the registration ID you have picked, whether uh, GitLab or Auth0,
depending upon that, it will have this all the URI which it has to invoke.
And then it invokes the authorization appropriate authorization server.
Okay.
Then authorization server.
If it is GitLab, it will ask you to provide your username password if it auth0 Zero again email ID
password.
So you have to authenticate the yourself.
And also you have to authorize the Spring Boot app that they can access my request.
So once it is done, once it is done the authorization servers calls a redirect URI which we have set
during registration.
We have seen that we have set the redirect URI so it will invoke the redirect URI.
Okay.
And in the response here if you see response they have set the code authorization code.
Okay.
So which endpoint.
This endpoint this filter.
Now catch this OAuth to login authentication filter.
Dot Java is the one which catch this redirect URI.
Now what they will do.
They will first make an authentication object out of this response.
Okay.
And then what they are doing is they are calling the authenticate their means, passing it to the authentication
manager and authentication manager redirect it to authentication provider.
So since we are using OpenID and what is the token it created OAuth to login authentication token.
So this is the provider which can handle this Oidc authentication authorization code authentication
provider dot Java.
So this provider this authenticate method ultimately for this provider will get caught because this
can support this token authentication object.
And also for OpenID scope this will support it.
So now here if you see it do two things here.
Till now, I have authorization code.
Authorization code is there in my.
This token and token.
I have already set the authorization code.
Whatever I have got in the response.
In the authorization response, I have got the code right.
So I have set it and pass it to the provider.
Now what it will do is it is calling invoking the token URI of the authorization server to fetch the
token access token response.
Okay.
And it also has the ID token also from response.
So whatever the response the response it goes right from this it fetch both access and ID token okay.
So it fetches the ID token.
So we are mostly interested in this ID token during authentication.
We are interested in this ID token which we get from this response of this.
So we take out the ID token.
And return back to authentication filter.
Okay.
So ultimately here if you see.
We call the authorize endpoint.
It returns back with the authorization code.
And after that I invoke the token URI internally.
All happening internally we are a user is not even knowing about it.
Okay.
So it invoke the token URI endpoint and it return back the ID token.
Okay.
Now ID token.
What I have done is so see in the I have got the ID token.
This is how ID token.
If you see that there is something called access token.
This is not a JWT.
JWT you remember that has three part okay.
So part one, part two and part three your header your claim and then your signature part.
But here, if you see this token has only there is no dot.
So this is known as opaque token only authorization server.
Understand what it has.
We don't know.
So but for Oidc ID token is is in JWT format.
If you see this is this is JWT format.
So here when it tries to do write create token right it parse it.
So in the parsing you can see the information.
It has all my information profile username right.
It has my picture.
Like all all information it has okay all basic information which is required for authentication.
It has.
So this ID token is received at this provider which it return back to filter okay.
And filter.
What it does is it stores the token and creates an HTTP session.
And once the session is created, it return like login successful.
And if you see in the cookie session is created.
And that's why when you hit slash users now cookie has the session.
So it automatically give me an access.
So if you understand this flow this diagram could also help you a little bit more.
Clarify it.
So now user is clicking the login endpoint.
Okay.
It will goes to the filter chain.
From there it will goes to one of the filter.
First is login.
So which filter default login page generating filter will get invoked.
It will return me a list of authorization server which it get from the Application.properties.
It's just simply return it and shown to the user.
Now user would be shown two things like auth, auth, oh and GitLab.
Which one you want to authenticate.
Now once the user click on one of the server, this is the endpoint get invoked or to authorization
registration id.
In this case it would be GitLab.
Uh the filter chain will get invoked.
It will pass the request to one of the security filter chain which filter OAuth two authorization request
redirect filter will get invoked.
It will redirect the request to the authorization server okay.
And return to the client.
But authorization server.
Uh, now it redirected the user to this.
So their user has to provide username password.
Okay.
But its flow is finished.
Its flow is return.
So it has return it.
It has completed its flow.
But now user has been redirected to this where it has to provide the username password, let's say GitLab.
So it would be like a GitLab page.
Once the user has provided the username page, it will redirect call a redirect URI with the authorization
code.
Now which filter catches it or to login authentication filter, it creates an authentication token object
which is nothing but an authentication object.
It put authorization code.
Here it passes to the authorization manager.
Authorization manager passes it to the authentication provider.
Which authentication provider understands this token and this scope?
OpenID is Oidc authorization code authentication provider.
So this understands it.
So what it does is it calls the token URI of the authorization server, passes the client ID client
secret and authorization code.
Okay.
So authorization server, return access token, refresh token and ID token in response.
So it will return the same to the filter.
Now it will.
What filter will do.
See this first filter.
Store this token information into in-memory Oauth2 authorization client service.
So we can also instead of storing in memory, we can also store it into the DB.
We can do that right.
We can implement this over to client service.
And we can override and store it into the DB.
How we have seen we are storing token into the DB.
Similarly this ID token access token which we are getting from the authorization server, we can store
it DB, but currently it is storing it in memory.
And then ultimately it's create an HTTP session and store this session into like whatever the authentication
object.
Right.
Which is coming that is stored into the security context holder and ultimately it passes.
Call the slash localhost 8080 slash endpoint.
So it has created an HTTP session.
So this is the all the flow happened internally.
And now when you click slash users you are trying to access any API.
Since the session is created security context holder filter will get invoked.
It will pass to the HTTP session security context repository.
It will fetch the session and if the session is active, it will grant an access.
It will grant an access.
So here if you see that here, if you see that when the session is set, it might not validate the token
with each request.
So session is valid.
The request has passed through, so it is possible that ID token becomes invalidated, but session is
still active.
Possible, right?
Because now with every request, my session is this filter.
Get invoked.
This.
See that a session is present.
If session is present, it will access the request.
It is not taking out my tokens out of this in memory and validating that token.
Token is valid or not.
It is not doing that.
So this makes our OAuth stateful.
And that's why one of the reason that when postman when I hit it, is not able to access it.
So how to fix it.
We can make it stateless.
Right.
And we can return the ID token in the response so that the client will pass the token.
And we will validate the token every time with every request.
Can we do that with this framework?
Yes, we can do that very easily.
So what I will do is that the same flow like, uh, the same flow once the user two endpoint.
Right.
Uh, two authorization server, let's say one is GitLab, one is auth zero.
User has clicked this.
Okay.
The same thing.
My redirect filter would get invoked.
It will pass this authorization server.
Authorization server will pass it to authorization code.
Everything same.
This will pass.
This authorization code creates an authentication token.
Authentication object will pass to authentication manager with two authentication provider.
It will reach to the Oidc provider which will call the token URI, and ultimately which will return
me the token ID token.
And when the control ultimate goes to the filter.
What?
The first thing it will do, it will store it into n memory first.
Second, it will create an HTTP session and store it into the security context folder.
So in previous part it was doing till here.
But now since I want to make it stateless, I have to return that ID token in response.
So this filter is already doing all these things.
Authentication filter already doing all these things.
Now I am adding one additional functionality here.
This is important.
I am returning the ID token in the response body.
How I am doing that.
So here if you open the OAuth to login authentication filter see that OAuth two login authentication
filter.
So if we see that uh after authentication it's parent.
Attempt authentication.
Something was right.
Attempt authentication.
Yeah.
So after this uh oh.
To login authentication, filter control will come here.
What it does is it will create a session which we have seen here.
So let me zoom it a bit.
Okay.
So it will first session strategy.
So it will create a session.
We can't change it.
This framework is already doing that.
We can't delete that.
Don't create a session.
After that it do successful authentication unsuccessful authentication.
It will create a security context holder strategy security context holder.
But after that if you see there is one success handler on authentication success.
So this is this interface.
So it has uh what it is doing inside this Currently if you see that it hasn't provided the implementation.
So it is doing some default cleanup tasks.
So I have implemented my custom success handler and provided on authentication success implementation.
And in that what I am doing is I am in the response, I am returning the token.
Okay, so that's what I have just extended one functionality from the same filter.
There is a method on authentication success.
So currently it's calling by default one which doing some cleanup.
So I have just provided an implementation of it and returning the token in the response body.
So see that first.
So that's what I have done I have created one custom word to success handler and implemented it authentication
success handler.
And then provided an override.
I have implemented this one.
So I have already have the authentication object, right?
This authentication object has all the info.
Okay.
So from this auth token I am fetching the ID token information.
Okay.
So I'm fetching the ID token information and putting it into the response.
So this is the first thing I have done to make it stateless okay.
So I have enhanced this filter override one method.
So currently on success after authentication it is doing nothing.
I have just enhanced it provide a custom implementation.
And in the response added the token ID token.
Now I started the application.
And also yeah one more thing.
In the security config we have to tell that, right?
You have to use this implementation.
So in order to login earlier we were doing customize with default.
Now I am tell that hey the success handler should be this one.
The main one.
So custom word to success handler.
So this is already at the right component.
So bean object should be created.
So I have just said that when you initialize it initialize it with this not with the default one.
Okay.
And also I make it stateless by default was if required.
We have already seen that in the previous uh form based login by default is if required.
So we have specifically make it that make this is stateless.
This auto login is stateless.
And this is the success handler which I want to use.
Okay.
So now when I started the application after authorization from the authorization server.
See.
In response, I got this token.
Okay.
And now you can.
Now only one thing left.
We have to utilize this token, and we have to validate it before providing us like access to any of
the API.
Right.
So now what we have to do is that now only one task left is client will pass this token with every request
and we have to verify it.
Now let's say the client have to use this slash users.
So in the authorization they have to pass bearer token.
And this will pass this token.
So once this token will pass we have to validate this ID token right.
We have to validate this.
So how to validate that.
So for that I have created a new filter.
So I have created an O auth validation filter extend once per request.
Filter.
I've created a filter.
Now here if you see first I am doing is extracting the JWT from the request.
So from authorization bearer header I am fetching the token.
This is id token which I got.
Now I am created one utility.
So this is one utility method I have created at the root component.
So I have created one method.
Is token valid.
Give me the token.
I will validate it.
So now what I am doing how I am validating it.
Now see this token is generated by GitLab.
And let's say that it has use this algorithm to sign it.
So this is an asymmetric encryption.
So they might have signed it through private key.
We need it.
Public key okay.
And public key URI we have already sent into the application properties.
If you just go and recheck our application.properties.
Once here, if you see that J.W. set URI this URL.
These are unique for each of the authorization server.
Okay.
So this is from where we get the public key through which we have to sign it.
So the first thing I am doing is I am finding from this token itself who is the issuer.
Who is the issuer.
So I'm just finding I am just parsing the token and taken out like who is the issuer, whether git or
auth0 or something else.
Once I get who is the token, I am using the framework itself JWT decoder we just put from issuer location,
we just provide the location.
It is a gitlab.com.
It is auth0 something whatever the authorization server.
Now this framework has the understanding that, uh, it will from the Application.properties J.W. it
will load the proper authorization, uh, server URI.
It will fetch the key.
And from that key it will decode it.
Our JWT verify it.
If it is not verified, it will fail it.
Okay.
So we are I'm just utilizing the framework.
You can even write your own.
You can have the URI, you can read the URI from Application.properties.
You can call it and verify it.
But this is the JWT decoder already does that.
All we have to tell is who is the issuer from that issuer, it will load the URI from Application.properties
and then decode it for us.
Okay, so verify and decode for us.
So what I am doing is here.
After extracting the token I am validating the token.
okay.
And it will internally it will, you know that it will use JC's URI endpoint to fetch the public key
and it will validate it.
And once it is validated, I all I am doing is storing the authentication object into the security context
folder.
Because without this login is not successful.
Okay.
So I just created for the testing purpose I just created username password authentication token.
I just put like this is a unique username and just put it into the security context folder.
Yeah authentication is success okay.
So this is the filter I have created now from the previous video.
We know that we have to add this filter.
So that's what I am doing.
So till now we have seen that we have make it stateless.
We have added our uh handler which is used to return the token in the response.
And now I have added this filter Just before this, so we have to specify the place.
So now once you start the server now and hit this end point slash users and the bearer token provide
the token.
You will see that fetch the details successfully.
So I'm hitting the login endpoint.
So let's start the server.
Now I'm hitting the endpoint click on GitLab.
It is verifying me.
Now it is asking the username password.
Once I click it.
It will call the redirecting right redirect URI.
And from there in the response I am returning the ID token.
Use the ID token in the header.
Pass it, call it.
You will get fetch the details successfully.
Okay, so guys, like if you think that it is too much information, please go through it one more time
slowly with your hands.
Things will become little bit more clear.
I try to go in depth as much as possible.
Uh, to show you what all thing happening in background.
So see lot of things happening in background only we are just seeing that here.
What internally happens.
But lot of things happen like seamlessly.
We don't even know.
We just click there and everything happens.
Right.
So go through it again slowly and see that how OAuth two implementation works.
Okay guys.
Any doubt let me know.
We will discuss further by.

--- Spring Boot Security - Method Security | Role based Authorization ---

Share this.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today is the last video of Spring Boot security.
Right.
So we have already covered most of the frequently asked and used authentication types.
And we have also seen one type of authorization which we used to put at the security filter layer itself.
Okay.
So today we will do the authorization at the annotation level.
We will see that.
So we as I already told you, we have already covered how at security filter layer we can do authorization.
If you remember this code you know that right?
In the security config class we used to do like this request matcher.
This API should have this role okay.
So this is we used to do at security filter layer.
But it has certain challenges in large scale application where we used to have hundreds of API.
You might think, say does any org has hundreds of API?
Yes.
Like there are many orgs which has hundreds of APIs.
In that scenario, managing the roles at security filter might become difficult and cause a scalable
issue.
Just consider that you have all the APIs listing in your security filter chain itself, and you are
providing the roles here.
So what's the better solution?
The better solution is that the place where we have defined our endpoint generally that controller can
be at that point itself, we tell what is the authorization required for it.
Okay.
So means at controller layer.
At controller layer we can define the authorization.
Okay.
And that's where our annotations comes into the picture.
So here if you see this diagram once this is I have taken from our previous authentication.
So what I wanted to show you here is that once a user is authenticated, let's say user one is getting
authenticated.
The authentication the authentication has all the objects.
Let's say granted authorities like whatever the roles we have defined, everything is present inside
it, right?
All the and the same authentication object reaches till your controller level.
So at controller level we will use this authentication object and do the authorization.
So see this in the annotation based role based authorization.
There are two annotations which are primarily used at the rate pre authorized and at the rate post authorize
pre Pre-authorize means do the authorization before execution of the API logic before execution of the
API.
Do the authorization and post authorized means.
Does authorization after execution of the API.
So sometimes what happens is you have a business logic.
Let's say this is your endpoint user endpoint.
So sometimes you need to execute the code logic.
And whatever the response you are getting inside that it might have certain data which we have to use.
And based on that we have to do the authorization logic, authorization logic and then decide do we
have to allow the user to access this API or not?
Okay.
So business logic runs first.
Authorization happens later in the authorized post, authorized and in Preauthorized authorization logic
happens first and then only the API get executed.
So first thing first we will see this annotation based authorization.
But first we have to create a user.
So let's create a dynamic user.
I have already shared this username and password creation video that how you can create a user dynamically.
So here what I am doing is I am creating one table user login.
And in that I have id username, password and permission.
So here it's like what I am trying to do is let's say user is Shreyansh.
Let me it has a role user.
It has a role user.
But I can give I want to give only permission on let's say order API read.
I want to give this and let's say I want to give order delete request or let's say sales Post something,
you can say that sales create permission and that's all.
So here if if you see I want to do this authorization like this, even though my role is user inside
that also I want to control.
Yeah.
Even though you are a user role, but only this thing you can do.
You can read the orders, you can delete the order, but you can't create it.
But yeah, you can create sales.
So that way I want to create.
So there what I have done is while creating a user I have username I have password role.
Either it could be user it could be admin.
And for this role what all the permission user has.
So I have created is one to many relationship.
So I have created a user permission.
It is also has id and name okay.
So one user can have many permissions like order read, sales read.
You can say that it's like a more granular level we can give here and here it is little bit at the top
level.
User and user has what all granular level permission we can provide here.
Okay.
So these two tables I created in and here in the entity Service.
So this is our entity service.
In the entity service you already know that we have to implement the user detail service.
We have to override this load by username.
And this is to save this is repository.
And this is the controller through which I have to create a user.
So this is already we have seen like uh here in this video okay.
So one thing I will come to this point later, but one thing you notice this part.
We have also seen that in the previous video.
But here if you see in the get authorities.
Okay.
When you are implementing the user details.
Right.
We have to override this method.
Get authorities okay.
So this is the same thing here.
If you see in the authentication object there is something called granted authorities.
This got filled up from this itself okay.
This got filled from this itself granted authorities.
So here if you see I am putting my role and also I am putting all my permission.
So this list whatever this authentication will go here.
Right.
Ultimately in the authentication object this list will have everything let's say role user comma order
read comma sales create.
So everything will comes inside this granted authorities of authentication object.
Okay.
So that's why in the same granted get authorities in the same list, I am putting my roles and I am
putting all my permissions also.
Okay, so that's what I am doing.
So now let's see.
Now we should be able to create user okay.
So here I am hitting this endpoint user login.
And my username let's say password is let's say 123 role I am giving role user okay.
And permission I am giving only one permission.
That is order read okay and user is created.
Now the user creation part is done.
We can update our security config file also.
So in the security config file we have to enable this annotation enable method security pre Pre-post
unable equals to true okay without enabling this.
The pre authorized and post authorized annotation would be ignored.
Okay so in the security config we have to tell that pre post enabled equals to true.
Then only this annotation would get intercepted okay.
So currently I am doing basic authentic authentication just for testing.
You can do with anything this annotation testing with JWT, OAuth or this thing.
But currently I'm testing for the simplicity basic authentication okay.
Because our purpose is to do authorization not authentication.
So yeah, this is the changes we have to do in security config.
We have to enable the pre post enable to true.
And for testing purpose I have created two controller one order and one for sales.
So here if you see this is my one endpoint slash orders.
Okay.
Slash API slash orders.
And this is just I have let's say that all orders have been fetched successfully.
Okay.
We can make it dynamic.
We will hit DB, fetch the data.
But for now, for simplicity, because this is not our main purpose.
Our main purpose is this.
Okay, so I have used the annotation on top of this method in the controller class at the rate Pre-authorize.
Now here if you see I have used like has role user, I haven't put underscore because inside the has
role has role.
This is by default get added.
Okay.
So you have to just put has role user.
What is the role we want to give user and authority.
I want to give order underscore read okay.
And similarly for the sales slash API slash sales I have used at the rate pre authorized annotation,
and I put that no matter whatever the role you have, this has authority.
You should have this authority.
Sales underscore read okay.
And we have already created a user which has both role underscore user and order underscore read permission.
So this is the place where we have created a user right.
This user is created.
What is the role role underscore user.
And what is the permission it has.
Order underscore read okay.
So this is totally qualified for this one order controller because it has the user role and it has order
underscore.
Read also for sales it required sales underscore read permission which doesn't have okay.
So now let's say that I am trying to access an API slash order slash API slash order API.
Since it's a basic authentication, I am providing the username password as J123.
This is what I have created a user as username password okay.
And when I hit it, all orders have been fetched successfully.
But when I try to access the sales API slash API slash sales, if you see the same username password
I got forbidden.
Why?
Because this required permission sales underscore read which this user doesn't have.
This user has only order read and user permission.
Okay, now at one, at this point of time, before proceeding further, you might get one question.
What is the difference between has role and has authority.
If you remember, I have already explained that in the part where we have done the authority at the
authorization, at the security filter layer.
But again, I will tell at code level it has no difference.
Okay.
Only difference is that when you use has role it will append role underscore.
That's all for authority.
It do not append anything.
Whatever you give it will be used like that.
Okay.
No difference.
And everything, whatever the role, whatever the authority you have defined, everything will get append
into a single list only.
Okay, I will show you the code.
Also inside has role also uses the same code.
Authority calls the same code itself.
Okay so it just like for us very high level.
You can use role for high level distinction and authority has authority for the granular level distinction.
Okay.
But at the code level, if you go one step down you will see no difference.
Everything would be inside a list only role.
Role underscore user and whatever the authority you will define.
Let's say order, create or sales read everything would be like for this user.
These are the all the permissions.
Same thing I have mentioned here.
Spring boot treats both has role and has authority in a similar way.
Only difference is that for has role role underscore is appended.
So see this code.
If you open this security expression root dot Java it has has authority has authority calls has any
authority.
It calls this and has any authority called has any authority name.
It ultimately calls this method.
And when you use has role internally it call has any role this and has any role calls the same.
Ultimately no matter what you use has authority or has role both invokes the same code.
Only difference is that when you use has role right, it put a default role prefix which is nothing
but a role underscore.
But ultimately it would have is that a list of get authority set right.
It will get a list of get authority set.
So what would happen is so here if you go while user creation we have given that right get authorities.
So here I am returning the authorities.
This authorities will have a role plus this permissions.
So internally what it does here is.
It will get in this list.
It will have everything.
Role plus authorities.
Generally both are same.
So.
But it has the complete list role underscore admin comma all this thing now it just checked.
It will iterate that hey does user has this role which is contained in the list or not.
So now here in this case what generally happened is you put has role user.
So internally it automatically appended this default prefix.
So it has put role underscore user.
Now it will check.
Does this present inside this list.
Yes.
Then it goes to the next one authority order underscore read for order read has authority does not append
anything.
So it will directly check the same list or the same list has this order underscore read also.
If yes, then ultimately return two.
So you understand that has role, has authority, has no difference.
Only thing is the prefix get appended into the has role.
So we don't need to add role underscore.
It will get automatically added.
But.
We generally use has role for high level distinction and has authority for more granular level distinction.
Okay.
Now one questions comes to your mind is how this authorization method invokes before invocation of a
controller method.
So this is is returning true and false right.
In the security expression route.
So has role method get get get invoked.
Because in the pre authorized annotation I have put has role has authority.
So these methods are getting invoked.
So how this get invoked who is taking care of it.
So remember this diagram.
So that's where I have also explained in previous videos of this spring boot interceptors.
Chapters write.
I have explained about the interceptor.
So Pre-authorized annotation is intercepted by this class authorization manager before method interceptor.
Okay, so this intercept, this annotation and how the interception works, how we can create write
our own interceptors.
What is the difference between filters and interceptors.
We have already covered this in depth one interceptor video and the filter versus interceptor.
You will see how exactly the interceptor works, how we can create our own interceptors.
We have already seen that.
Okay.
So this is one of the interceptors which tracks this annotation.
So if you remember we have also created one interceptor we which tracks different annotation.
So similarly this annotation is already there in the spring security framework which track this annotation
authorization manager before method interceptor.
Okay.
So we know that okay.
This is the in this annotation got intercepted by authorization manager before method interceptor.
Now what it will do now what it will do is this whatever the string you provide inside this this is
generally known as spring expression language.
ESP spring expression language okay.
So generally what happens is when this interceptor got invoked because of this pre authorized annotation,
it first read the string from this annotation.
So it read this string okay.
So currently it's in a string format.
Now what it will do is it will pass it to the spell expression parser.
So there is a parser provided by the Spring Security framework which is spell parser.
Spell expression parser.
So what it does is it will convert this string to AST abstract syntax tree.
So now you will see the tree like this.
What is the operation.
And this is the operation end.
So it's the left operand.
Right operand.
Okay so it's children.
This is children zero.
This is children one.
So left operand right operand.
Okay so here it has end which is operation end.
So it has this invoke this class which internally does this left operand right operand part the same
thing.
So what I'm trying to say that we don't have to write any of this thing.
It recursively resolve this expression okay.
So and write its operation end.
So it invokes this method then it's resolved its left operand.
Left operand is your this zero part.
And again if you see this, if you go inside this left operand, again it's a recursive call.
If there is any other operand let's say or so it will goes to that class that will have left right.
Likewise.
And once that is resolved then it will automatically resolve the right operand and the same recursive
operations happen.
And ultimately what it does is once it invokes all the method, all the variables references.
Right.
Ultimately what it will do is this interceptor validate the result and decide whether to invoke the
method or not.
So these are the steps involved once the interceptor is invoked.
So we can use more logical operation like currently we have used and right like has role and we have
put and has authority.
Similarly we can use or we can use not.
Naught.
And similarly we have relational operator we can use like this value.
So generally in the API slash user slash you might have some let's say id.
So we can also read we can put a authorization logic on this value also okay.
So value is 15 value not equals to 15.
I will tell you when this comes into the picture like when it would be helpful for us.
Just for example let's say I have created this endpoint fetch user details.
What is this path variable.
Path variable is id.
So the same id I used here ID should be this okay.
Is this pre authorize.
Post authorize has access to your authentication object okay.
We can see that.
So if you open the code you can open that.
Uh, what was that?
Authorization manager before?
Method interceptor.
Right.
So this is the attempt.
Authorization will ultimately get invoked and attempt authorization if you see that it has, like,
get authentication.
Right.
So in the Get authenticated authentication security context holder strategy, which we have put into
the filter part.
Okay.
From there it has the complete authentication object.
Now based on that uh so it has access to the authentication object.
So based on that.
If you want to put any logic we can put like this.
So here if you remember that let's say I have created one user.
Let's say RJ password is 123.
And in db and in db it would be like id one rj username password is one two, three.
So this ID also comes This.
This is unique.
Unique user ID.
So this ultimately generally called as principal ID.
Okay.
So let's say that I want to make sure that whatever the user it is trying to fetch an ID, this should
be the same user who is authenticated.
Okay.
So in basic authentication you are putting your r j and the password 123 right username password for
basic authentication when hitting any API.
So first it goes to the filter fetch the authentication object and that authentication object get principal
authentication.
It has this let's say id.
This is the second user username is this password is this.
Now I want to make sure that this API which is getting it is trying to hit, let's say this user is
calling an endpoint slash user slash three.
But this user is unique.
User ID is two.
So I should not allow this user to hit the endpoint to fetch the details of some other user.
So that's why I have put this like, okay, check this.
Whatever the ID user is trying to fetch in this endpoint is the same as what the principal ID, what
is this user who is actually authenticated.
So that way you can also use.
So post authorize is very very similar.
So only thing is it does the authorization after execution of the API but before sending the response
back to the user.
And what is the interceptor authorization manager after method.
Interceptor comes into the picture after.
So we can see this like I have created two users just for testing purpose.
So I have created a user role password 123.
And it has role user and order read with the same role and permission I have created be user.
So in DB it has, uh, a user has unique ID one and B user has unique ID two.
Okay, now I am creating one controller.
Let's say read order endpoint slash API slash order.
So in the pre authorize I have put that user should has role user.
So here if you see both has role user this is also role user.
This is also role user and should have authority order read okay.
So this is a read API.
Get read API get call orders.
So they should have order read permission.
Both have order read okay.
Now let's come to post authorize later.
Now what would happen when you hit this endpoint slash API slash order.
Who is trying to access B user One, two, three.
It is trying to hit what would happen.
The first Pre-authorize will interceptor will get invoked.
It will check does be user has the role user yes.
Does be user has order underscore read permission.
Yes.
Then it will go and execute this.
So now in this one for hard coded purpose I have created the order DTO and put a user id one.
Okay.
And order ID this that this order belongs to user ID one and returning the DTO.
Now here I have used post authorized annotation.
So what happened is in this post authorized there is something called return object.
Return object.
It could be if you are using a string.
If you are using any object it internally type casted for us.
We don't have to do that.
We only have to use return object.
So now I am checking that whatever the user who is authenticated and calling the endpoint.
So here in this be user.
This be user.
This unique ID is two.
So this user should only get its its own order not somebody else order.
And this order contains for hardcoded purpose.
I have put that this order belongs to user ID one.
So now what I am in the post authorize I am checking the return object.
So this order dto internally typecast for us order dto dot user id dot user id equals to equals to authentication.principal.id.
So authentication.principal.id for this be user.
The ID would be this two.
So this one equals to equals to two.
No so means this user is trying to access the data of some other user so it return forbidden.
But if I use the A user, it return me the data.
Why?
Because a user principal id is one.
And here in the hard coded way I put user id one only so they got matched.
So here, if you see that in the post authorized what I just wanted to tell it access the code and before
returning to the end user it has intercepted our return object from there.
Whatever the field, we want to check with the data.
Okay, we can do that logic and then only it will provide the response to the user okay.
Okay guys, if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further more in the comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- RestTemplate | Communication between Microservices ---

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today in Spring Boot microservice video we are going to set up two microservices.
And the first thing we will do is communicate with each other.
Right.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So this would be our goal setting up of two microservice order service and product service which would
be running on different port number.
Right.
So order service we will make it run on 8081 and product service 8082.
And how two microservices can communicate with each other.
This is our goal, right?
It's not very simple.
There are different ways.
And in spring microservices or spring cloud what is the recommended way of approach.
So we have to see that.
So let's start.
Setup of two microservices.
The first one is order service.
As we have already know how to set up a any spring boot project.
We have already covered so many topics.
So we know that how to make use of spring initializer.
So here I am creating one order service.
Right.
Just creating with spring web for now.
Not adding spring cloud, just a spring web for now.
Similarly, I'm setting up one product service again, very very basic project.
For now we are starting with scratch, like setting up very basic project itself Spring Web.
So now I have this two projects now in the order service in its Application.properties.
I have put a port number 8081 right.
And when I started it this order service is started on port number 8081.
Similarly, whatever the project which got which we have downloaded from here, if you open it up and
change in the Application.properties server dot port 8082.
And it started so our product service application going to start on 8082.
Now in our system two applications are running product service and order service on different port number.
Now when two services are running the first thing we have to do is how they can communicate between
each other, right.
This is very very important.
Like you can say that this is the fundamental of microservice okay.
And we have to understand it very clearly.
So there are two different ways synchronous and asynchronous.
So we are going to start with first synchronous communication.
So synchronous communication means client wait for the response from server before continuing.
So now let's say in this case our order service is going to call.
product service.
Okay, so at any point of time it will start the synchronous communication.
So order service will wait for the response of the product service okay.
So you can say that it's a blocking nature.
Blocking in nature okay means thread.
Wait till response is not received.
So synchronous communication types are Rest template Rest client and fink client.
So this is very important.
This is actually which is used in spring cloud okay.
And you know that whenever we are working with microservices we are ultimately have to use Spring Cloud
because it has very well integration with all the other tools like load balancer, service discovery,
Observability, etc..
Okay, so we have to use a spring cloud.
And in spring cloud this communication type is used.
But if you directly jump into the client and understand about it, our base would not be clear.
So to first set up our base we have to understand Rest template and Rest client okay.
Which are the you can say that mode of communication between microservices but without spring cloud.
Without spring cloud okay.
If you are not using spring cloud means if you are not using Eureka server service discovery and all
like all the microservices, which we are going to cover in future, if we are not using Spring Cloud
functionality, then these two are sufficient to communicate between the microservices.
But as I mentioned, whenever we are, because in future we are going to use Spring Cloud for our microservices,
and this is the communication we have to use.
But to understand it better, we have to understand these two.
Then only our base would be clear how Finland is also working, because internally it might be using
the same flow only.
So let's start here.
In this we see a sample http get request call.
So this is a very very basic Get request.
So what request contains get call.
So here first we have a Get method like HTTP method which is like get post put delete.
This is my URI.
This part is my URI right.
Uh what is the path which you are hitting?
So in the product service which I am trying to hit here, this is the API actually.
Okay.
This is the HTTP protocol.
So we have different HTTP protocol Two three.
So these are the protocol version which we are using for the HTTP host, like the target host where
our product services like.
So this is the port number URL and port number.
User agent is nothing but a client or tool which is used to make the request.
So now let's say I am using curl URL to make or initiate an endpoint.
If you are using postman.
So that agent would be written like which tool you are using to actually invoke the request except format
in which client want response.
Okay, so if you want a server that hey, return me the response in the application JSON format, then
you have to add this.
So this is a very, very basic HTTP request call okay.
And this is how very very basic HTTP post request call looks like.
So I'm just telling you that so that we are in a same page.
Right?
When we are calling HTTP method, we know what it is when we are saying protocol.
What protocol URI, what is the URI okay.
When we are saying target host?
Because in future we are going to use lot of word host.
So host means this your URL and port number okay.
So how does HTTP post request calls look like.
Again same HTTP method URI protocol your target host agent.
Except this is all same.
But what extra.
So we have content type.
So in the post we also have a body like request object right.
What we have to send.
So this content type tells request body which I am going to send you is JSON okay.
And the content length tell the number of bytes in the request body.
What is the length of it?
Bytes and bytes.
And then this is the actual body.
Or you can say that actual data like let's say in the Post request we are generally creating a new object.
So a new product object which I have just for example.
So I'm sending the body here.
So this is how HTTP post requests call look like.
And let's see how the response call look like a very basic very very important because a lot of things
we are going to cover which.
Very very tightly coupled with the response call like Keepalive I will tell you.
So again here, if you see we have content type because now we are talking from the perspective of response
like from the server perspective.
So content type is that tells client to expect JSON response.
Content length is number of bites and response body.
Okay.
This is your response body.
Like what server is sending in the JSON format.
Now here if you see these two things very very important connection keep alive and keep alive.
Timeout equals to five max equals to 50.
Till now what we know is that.
HTTP and WebSocket.
Till now what we know is that HTTP first create a connection right.
First set up a connection.
After that it send a request.
Then it will send a response.
And after that it terminates the connection.
But in the WebSocket let's say you have a request like again it build a connection because it's also
based on TCP.
So it is built the connection request response.
But WebSocket is persistent in nature, right?
Persistence in nature means that connection do not terminate.
And also it is bidirectional.
Okay, but what my point here trying to say is that connection is not terminated.
WebSocket is persistent in nature.
And what we know is that for HTTP, every time a connection is made after request and response, the
connection get terminated.
But this was the behavior of 1.0 HTTP protocol version 1.0.
In 1.1, the default behavior is this keep alive.
Connection is keep alive is set.
What does keep alive means.
So by default, connection is set to keep alive in HTTP 1.1.
In HTTP 1.0, by default.
Connection is set to close whenever connection is set to hear close.
So what would happen here is this behavior will follow after connection request response and after that
connection get closed.
But in 1.1 which is the default is connection is keep alive.
So what will happen is it will not close the connection.
As soon as possible you can say that it will not close the connection after response.
It will close the connection based on this configuration.
So first is timeout.
Timeout five means close the TCP connection.
If it's idle for five, second and max equals to 50 means tell.
The maximum number of requests can be sent over the same TCP connection.
So you are saying that now our HTTP protocol is also persistent Means it does not get closed just after
server.
Send the response in 1.1.
Keepalive is set.
And with that, these two configuration comes into the picture where.
Timeout.
Tells that close it if it is idle for this much amount of time.
And this tells that on a single TCP connection this is the maximum number of requests can be processed.
Maximum number of requests can be sent over the same TCP connection.
Okay.
So this is one flow when keepalive is set.
So here if you see first three way handshake happen between the client and server.
This is where TCP connection build up.
Okay.
After that client send a HTTP request which I already showed you how the HTTP request looks like.
Now the client server respond with the HTTP response.
But here, if you see that connection is not closed, the client may reuse the same TCP connection again,
because in the response Keep-alive connection is used.
Okay.
So till this configuration is fulfilled you can reuse the connection.
So same TCP connection can be used for multiple HTTP requests.
And once it is all done either timeout happened or maximum limit reached.
The four way termination to close the TCP connection happen.
So TCP termination happen of this connection okay.
And you know that when the connection is set to close in the response when the connection is set to
close after response the connection get closed, okay.
You can't use the same connection again.
That's the difference.
So we will see that because our code flows differs when this keepalive is set.
I will show you how.
Okay, but by this point of time, we should be clear how our request call looks like, how our post
request looks like response, and what is the purpose of Keepalive?
Okay, now let's first see I told you about three, right?
Rest template.
Rest client.
And the feign client.
So these are all used in spring boot.
So spring boot you can say that it's a layer or framework which hides certain functionality from us
which make things little bit easy for us.
But I will say that, like, what if we try to invoke the Rest endpoint without using this spring boot
itself first.
Okay, what if we try to use it with plain Java?
Because even if we use Rest template, because since it's a spring communication type, it might abstract
something from us, which we don't know internally.
It might be using some behavior which is used in plain Java.
So we first need to understand how if we are not using spring boot, if we want to just communicate
with two microservice using plain Java, how we can do that?
Because we ultimately know that spring boot, let's say rest template I'm using internally.
It might be using that only.
Okay.
So that's the first thing we will see.
So here if you see the order service I am writing one controller I am writing one rest controller.
This is the end point which I am exposing.
Similarly for product service I am writing one controller slash product and this is the endpoint.
Okay, so my purpose is that order service has to invoke this API of the product service, this endpoint
slash product slash ID.
And it will simply return this product fetch with ID whatever the id I am just printing for.
Very very simple just returning.
Whenever this get method get invoked, simply return this.
Now from order service I have to invoke this.
Okay so I have written this method get order okay.
So whenever this endpoint get invoked from here I am trying to invoke this.
But now I am using plain Java no spring boot rest template.
Let's see what all thing we have to do.
So this is the first thing we have to create a http url connection object okay http url connection object.
Consider this as an envelope, like where we define what is our HTTP method get what is our content
type JSON application slash JSON.
What is the type?
Timeout right.
Connection timeout read timeout.
So this all things we have to specify.
So consider this as an envelope where we specify what is the URL.
Also like URL where what exactly has to be invoked okay.
So provide me the address.
So all these things has to be first created.
So how we create we create a first object of URL okay.
Provide the URL which we have to hit.
So I provided a URL here okay.
Now I am opening a connection open connection.
So at this point of time it is not creating any.
So this is my client.
This is my server.
So when I say that open connection it is not creating an HTTP connection now.
No.
So currently it is just creating a http url connection object at this point of time.
And it set header properly.
Like if you want to set body, just set the body right and the URL we have set.
Okay.
So everything we have set till now the connection timeout timeout connection timeout means now when
your client is trying to connect with server the first TCP connection while building how much time client
should wait, how much time within how much time this connection should get built up.
If it is taking more time then request should get failed and the second one is read timeout.
Read timeout means after the connection is built up.
After TCP connection is built up, the client sends a request.
Now client is.
I told you it's a blocking nature, right?
So client is waiting for the response from the server.
So how much time client can wait for the response okay.
So that's why read timeout okay.
How much time client can wait for the response from the server.
So this is all we can set into this object http url connection object.
Now this is the second part okay.
So now we have to create a TCP connection.
So TCP connection can generally build when out of one of these three things are used either you call
connect http URL connection or http URL connection dot connect.
Either this time a TCP connection is built up, TCP connection got built up means three way handshake
happens or if you call get input stream or get response code which internally calls connect only.
Okay.
So it initiate the TCP connection at this point of time.
So I am directly reading uh doing http url connection dot get input stream.
So internally it will first do connect for me.
So it will first create TCP connect.
Then it will send a request for me because request is also present in http URL connection.
And that get input stream.
So it will give me an input stream where response is present.
So it will also get a response and it will give me an input stream.
Now from this input stream I have to read the response.
That's all.
So now I am reading the response from the input stream and I'm printing.
Response is.
Whatever the string which is returned.
So it return this product fetch with id this.
So that's what it printed.
The response is product fetched with ID this one.
Okay.
So this is the second part.
Second part is like we actual TCP connection is made either one of this three.
And since I am using input stream it automatically do a connection.
And then internally it send the request get the response and give me the input stream.
And from that input stream I read the response and parse it like how I want it.
If I want to parse it as a string, I just use a stringbuilder.
If you want to parse it as an object, you can create an object and do a proper mapping.
Once that's done, this is.
The third part is very, very important.
See that I am closing the connection.
Disconnect.
Okay.
So here if you see this is the code of the disconnect.
What it does.
It says that if input stream is not fully read.
So whatever the response which you get, if there is some issue with that, some exception you got and
this input stream is not read properly.
HTTP client or closed server?
Close the TCP socket.
Close the TCP connection.
So HTTP client.
So this TCP connection right.
In in Java the wrapper around this TCP connection is known as HTTP client.
Okay.
So we are actually closing it.
If you go inside this http url connection dot disconnect.
So internally if it response is not properly read it close the TCP connection.
If response is properly done it just say finish it.
Do not close it.
Why?
Because I told you that in 1.1, keep alive is set to true.
Where?
Here.
Keep alive is set to true.
So there.
What happen is there is something.
A cache is maintained.
Okay.
The cache we have the key and value key is your.
You can say that.
Your host URL or port number.
Okay.
This is your key URL and port number.
Okay.
And value is your HTTP client object HTTP client is wrapper around TCP connection.
So you can say that this is actually a TCP connection.
So for one URL and port number you can say that for one target host.
The TCP client HTTP client object or TCP connection is stored against it.
So whenever we did this.
So whenever first we reuse it.
So whenever we do.
Dot connect.
Right.
So it will not directly just create a new HTTP client object for us.
Because this is where actually TCP connection is made TCP connection.
You can say that HTTP client is a wrapper around it.
So HTTP client object is actually created.
So when we do dot connect it's not like it blindly creates a new HTTP client object.
No it first check the cache it first check the cache.
If cache has this key whatever the this localhost 8082.
Right.
This is the host and the URL and the port number.
Right.
So if this key is there it will reuse the HTTP client object means it is trying to reuse it and just
change it to let's say in use flag is set to true.
In use this.
This connection is currently in use.
As soon as we did HTTP finished, we are returning to this cache back again, making it like in use.
No false.
Now it is not in use.
So this HTTP connection stay valid till this configuration.
As I showed you above this timeout and Max okay.
And ultimately so here this is the third step I am doing.
So this is our plain Java.
Looks like if you want to communicate between two microservices and here if you see that now I am hitting
this API order one.
So I'm hitting this API.
So what it will do is it will try to communicate it.
So order calls successfully.
This is the last order call successfully.
And here I am printing response right in the log System.out.println.
So here so it calls the product and print what the product.
Return this product fetch with id one.
But you can clearly see the disadvantage of above approach too much boilerplate code.
You have to open a connection.
You have to set a header.
You have to read the response.
You have to close the streams.
Right.
So here, if you see that so many things you are doing, you have to understand about http url connection,
how you setting the headers timeouts, this stream you got right response stream.
You have to read it.
You have to make sure that properly stream is closed.
Right.
So everything you have to parse the response by yourself, everything you have to handle it.
So too much boilerplate code response should be handled manually.
I told you, right?
You are parsing over the stream and you are parsing how you want it.
Like I like, I just simply parse the input stream as like I'm just in the stringbuilder I am taking
it line by line.
Okay, I'm reading a line and just appending it into the stringbuilder.
So I want to parse it as a string.
If you want to parse it or map it to an object, you have to handle it manually.
How?
If server is sending JSON, let's say product name some price, then you want to map it to some object.
Then you have to take care of the mapping properly.
Now this is not a string right?
Limited support for advanced feature connection pooling interceptor filters.
Right.
So that's some of the disadvantage I would say that for the plain Java concept because is that too much
boiler code Like too much.
Like here.
Just to make one connection.
See the amount of code you have written.
Okay, that's where Rest template comes into the picture.
So this is our first spring based communication type.
And we know that spring abstract lot of things for us.
It makes lot of things easy for us.
Okay.
So I would say that it's a legacy way to call Rest API in spring application in spring.
Also it is a legacy because after Rest template Rest client comes into the picture which is the latest
one.
So Rest template.
Sometime when we call Rest template we call it as a legacy way to call rest API in spring application
in spring application.
Right.
So now let's see the same thing.
The same thing.
Order service has to communicate the product service.
If in the rest template I have to do what I have to do, the first thing is We have to create an object
of the rest template.
Okay, so in the App.config configuration I am creating a bin of it.
We already have seen this in depth in previous videos right?
So in the configuration I am creating one bin and I am creating just new rest template object.
That's all simple okay this leave it for now.
This is like or I will come back again.
But for now like I have used this.
So either this or this, you can say that I will come to this.
Here I am setting the timeouts.
We'll come to that.
But let's say that I have not.
I don't want to set timeout for now.
I want default timeout.
Whatever connection timeout, read timeout, write the first thing again.
I just created a simple Rest template object.
Then what?
This is the order API.
I have created the same thing.
From here I would invoke this product API.
I have to invoke this.
So here, if you see whatever the object I have created, I have auto wired it.
So because of this auto wired object is already there present right.
So this object would get auto wired here.
And just I am calling rest template dot get for object pass the URL properly right proper URL, just
pass it.
And what how your response looks like.
So I want my response to be automatically passed in a string.
And ultimately my response I get in is string itself.
So what I have done is again I have created an object of Rest template.
Using that object I invoke get for object method.
In the get for object method, I pass the URI which I want to invoke and what my response looks like
either a string or either some object.
I want to mention it here.
Whatever the response I'm getting, I want to pass it as string.
Spring boot will automatically take care of mapping it.
Whatever the stream's response stream comes in, Spring Boot will automatically map it.
And ultimately I get a response and I am just printing response from product API called from Order Service.
Is this one order called successful?
So now when I hit this API, when I invoke this API order call is successful.
It reached till here.
And if you see the logs response from product API called from order service it print the response actual
it printed this.
So now here, if you see all the boilerplate code which we have written http url connection URL like
stream, you have to take care of response parsing all gone with a single line.
See how easy it become with the rest template?
So what exactly happened inside rest template?
We'll see that.
But here I will show you this.
Another which we have left.
So sometime which we want is like I also want I don't want to use the default connection timeout or
timeout.
I want to set it so we can set it like this.
While the same thing during configuration while I'm creating a.
So here we have to set the factory object.
This is the factory object.
So here while creating a new Rest template object we have to set a factory object simple client HTTP
request factory object.
Right.
So this factory.
ultimately help us to simple client HTTP request factory.
So as from the name clear client HTTP request factory.
So this factory ultimately help us to return the object of client HTTP request.
Right.
Which ultimately kind of where we can set all our URL, your timeouts your post method.
Right.
Ultimately all this.
So generally http url connection internally also has this request.
Okay.
So the same thing.
So I am creating I am using this simple client HTTP request factory which is a default.
You can say that here I haven't used new rest template.
Okay So.
But how?
I will get the request object client http request object.
So internally by default it uses this factory only.
I will show you the flow.
By default it uses this factory only and set the default values okay.
So now if I want to take some control.
So this is how it does.
Like I created a factory object and I set the what is the connection timeout.
What is the read timeout.
And put this factory okay.
So these timeouts are in milliseconds.
So this is just I want to show you here.
Otherwise if you don't want to set the connection timeout timeout you can directly use just new rest
template.
That's all.
But how this exactly happened how it worked internally I just wrote one line object rest template object,
get four object and pass the URI.
And uh, this response type.
And it worked.
The connection is made for what happened internally.
So understand this flow very properly.
If you understand the plain Java flow this would be like exactly the same thing which it does behind
the framework.
So first thing when we call rest template dot get for object what it does it it first invokes create
request.
Okay I told you the default is simple HTTP client request factory.
So it will call a create request method on top of it.
Okay so the request goes to here.
Now what it does is it will create an http url connection object okay.
Earlier in the plain Java we were creating the object http url connection object.
Now it's got hidden inside this.
So this factory is creating an object for us http url connection object.
Now it set request method, connect timeout read timeout whatever.
Here we have like get connect timeout re timeout whatever.
Then what it will return is it will return us a simple HTTP request object.
Set the connection http url connection object inside it and return this object.
It send me the simple HTTP request in return.
So this object internally has this http url connection http url connection object.
This has it.
Okay.
And then http url connection.
You already know that it is a kind of an envelope where we have URI method read timeout connect amount.
Everything Okay.
So now rest template again got this request object.
What it will call is second call execute on this request object.
This request object it calls execute.
So this is the class.
You can go to this class and check this.
It is exactly the same thing you will find.
So it will help you more clear.
You can put some debugger point.
So now if you go to simple client HTTP request object and go to its execute method, what it will do,
it will take out the http url connection object which we have created and calls connection dot connect.
I told you what connection dot connect does is it actually creates the TCP connection.
So it.
But one thing I told you, if you got the flow of plain Java connection right properly, it do not blindly
create an HTTP client which is a wrapper around TCP, is do not blindly create an object of it.
There is some cash involved in it.
Keep alive cash.
I told you in protocol 1.1 HTTP protocol 1.1 keep alive cash is true.
Set so it first internally invokes this keep alive cash class.
So this has two methods get and put.
So first it goes to the Get.
And check if this URL and port number exist whatever we are trying to hit okay.
If yes, then means there is already a HTTP client object.
Or you can say the TCP connection object is present.
So reuse it because if it's there in the cache means it is still alive, means its timeout is not yet
happen, or maximum limit is not yet crossed.
Okay.
But if it is not there.
Right.
So we have to create a new HTTP client object.
Or you can say that new TCP connection object we have to create, and we have to also put it into the
cache.
Okay.
So first what it will do is it will take out the http url connection object and then invoke the connect
which actually creates a TCP connection but it do not create blindly it.
First check the cache.
Now once you have get the HTTP client object which is present inside a connection, it will call get
response code.
I told you that there are three methods like get Inputstream get response code or dot connect.
So dot connect is used to do a TCP connection and get Inputstream and get response code is like where
client send the request, get the response okay response stream it got.
Now it has to do a parsing.
So after that it invoke get response code means it.
Now send the request to the server also and wait for the response.
Okay, so now all the response stream, whatever the response it has got from the client or server.
It's there all in the connection.
That stream would be there.
Okay.
So it's there and it return.
It's set inside simple client HTTP response object and set this URL connection.
This connection which has all this response info right.
It's set inside this response object and returns.
So now I am got simple client HTTP response object.
This has internally http url connection object.
Now I am doing is handling the response and extract data.
So here whatever you have defined like what type you wanted response I want to parse the response as
a string, or let's say some class product class.
Now it does parsing for us automatic parsing.
So it still got a stream.
It read the stream and it will do a parsing.
So it will use some JSON converters possibly.
And once that's done it ultimately closed the reading stream.
Okay.
But here if you notice it do not close the TCP connection.
It is not doing uh HTTP client that close or something.
It not.
So this is our HTTP client.
It's not closing it.
It just closed the stream as soon as the stream is closed.
What happened is the HTTP client object, which is our TCP connection, right.
Which is there in the cache.
Let's say currently it's marked as in use equals to true.
Now that would be false.
Now it is not in use.
It is marked as free.
now.
It can be reused again till its configurations are met properly.
So here, if you see that Rest template does all the things which we were doing it manually in the plain
Java opening a connection, setting all this timeouts calling dot connect internally does it.
So calling internally the request sending the request getting the response.
Parsing it.
Closing the request stream response stream.
But it's all replaced with just one line in spring boot get for object.
This one line this whole frameworks now handling it.
Okay, so what are some of the other methods which are available in Rest template?
I told you this get for object right.
Similarly there is something called get for entity.
So in get for object, whatever the response type you are sending, it returns the response body as
an object.
So here if you see I see product class the return would be product body only.
It will give me the response body only, not the complete response complete response as status headers
everything but this returns me get for object return me only the body the response actual data response.
There is something called get for entity URL and the response type, so it will give me the full response
entity.
The same rest template dot get for entity just the your URI.
Okay, the complete URI and the type which you wanted in the response product dot class.
But the response type is the complete entity okay.
So now in the response you can get the status code.
Also you can get the headers and you can get the body.
Your body would be of type this this.
Okay.
The only difference is that in the first one you get only this body.
Not status, not headers, anything like that.
For the post you have to use this method post for object okay.
So it has your URI the request because in the post you have to pass the request body and the response
type.
Very very simple.
Again, if you see rest template at post for object your URI.
This is my URI which I want to hit.
This is the request body which I want to send because I want to create a new product.
Right?
So I create a new product.
I create one object which has this values.
I send this to the server and my response body would be like this product dot class.
Okay again post for object means it only the response body would be available to you in the response.
It would be direct body, but post for entity means full.
The response type would be response entity.
From there you can get a body.
You can get a status code.
You can read headers.
So some similarly for put we have a URL and the request.
So here if you see send put and no response body is expected in the put, you won't get any response
right because it's only an update.
So this is let's say URL right rest template dot put URL and the updated product whatever you want to
update it right here.
Generally it would have a ID.
Also this ID this id let's say this is the product which you want to update but there is no return type.
Similarly for delete you have to just give the URL the URL.
So here, if you see that you provided the URL and just say that delete and there is no return type.
Okay.
So there are two more methods.
General method which gives you more flexibility.
One is exchange and another is execute.
So exchange if you want to customize the HTTP method according to yourself.
If you want to take control of the header and the body yourself, but want to rely on spring their automatic
conversion response conversion serialization right, then you can go for exchange.
Just see an example here.
I have defined a URL.
Now I want to take a control of the header.
So now I am creating a one header object.
Okay.
In the header I set the content type.
If any other header I want to set let's say authorization header and my token I have to set here All
the header you can set here then body.
So I have created one.
Let's say this is the body.
Some product and name.
And the price I have set now in the HTTP entity I have set both the body and the header.
So now I have full control over my header and my body how I want it.
Right.
And here I am just calling the exchange.
So here pass the URL which you want to hit okay.
Second is HTTP entity object HTTP entity object has two things your body and your header.
Right.
So HTTP entity has two things body and header.
So second is my after HTTP method it's my HTTP entity okay.
And after that response type in the response which you will get from the server.
Its body should be automatically converted to this product or class.
So doing automatic conversion.
Okay.
So the exchange returns you the response entity which means you have the complete header access body
access everything.
Okay.
So this is clearly understood right.
When to use exchange.
Exchange in simple term.
Only use when you want control over HTTP method header body but don't want to do conversion response
conversion serialization and all you want to rely on spring boot.
Then you can use this.
There is one more called execute which says that hey, even the serialization conversion also you take
care of it.
It's like a plain Java how you use to connect it.
Generally it's like the same thing.
We only have to manually do all the things we have to take care of the object like header, body, request,
response, serialization all need to be handled manually, right?
So it provides us complete view of the interface request callback interface and response extractor interface.
So request callback interface if you see it has functional interface.
So we will use lambda expression.
But we have access to client HTTP request object.
So we can modify the request as we want.
Similarly the request response extractor again it's a functional interface which provide us the access
to response object.
Means we can parse the response as we want.
So this is an example like I have already covered in Java the functional interface and the lambda expression.
How to use it.
So you can check in depth there.
So here I am creating a new Rest template object.
First my URL.
Now here.
If you see what is the.
I need an object of this request callback and the response extractor.
So these are functional interface.
So I am using lambda expression.
So means here at this point of time I have access to request.
So what I am doing is request using lambda expression I am writing my functionality here now.
So in the request I am changing the header.
I am adding my body which I wanted right?
And here if you see that I am taking care of serialization now, it's not automatically done.
So whatever the object I have created product, I have to convert it into a bytes and I have to put
this, uh, whatever the body which I have written right, bytes input stream and I have to write it
to this body request body.
Okay.
So I am doing taking care of all the serialization and conversion.
Okay, so this is the request callback.
Nothing but a functional interface which provide access to client HTTP request object, which where
we can add header, add our body.
But also we need to take care of serialization also.
Similarly the response which comes means response extractor.
So we have access to the response client HTTP response.
So here I am using again lambda expression.
So whatever the response I will get.
So this is my input stream.
Whatever the response dot get body stream util dot copy to string I am just copying to string, that's
all.
So my body would be like become a string response extractor.
This one okay.
And this is ultimately where I am invoking execute.
So internally it will do dot connect.
First it will create a TCP connection, and then it will send get response code right, and then have
this request and header properly set into the HTTP client connection object.
Okay.
And then it gets a response.
And then it will do this.
It will run this logic.
Whatever the response it will get it will run.
Then this logic okay.
And if you see print it it will print properly okay.
So in short use exchange again very very important when you only have to worry about headers and body
but internal one level more depth like serialization right.
And the conversion you don't have to worry about it.
You just send like what you wanted.
It automatically does all the parsing, that's all.
But when you want full control, like actually execute, right?
Everybody call internally.
Execute only.
Even if you say exchange put post get all internally call execute only internally right.
So if you want full control then you can use execute.
And you can use.
This is one simple example.
Okay.
So when execute got invoked it do connect.
And then it will try to create a HTTP connection object which will give you an HTTP client request has
this object HTTP client request.
So then it this is get invoked.
Now you have the request.
You update headers and body okay.
After that it makes get response code.
Now once it made response code it got a response.
So after response what it has to do it run this parse like this.
And ultimately you get a response?
Okay.
If you practice this, you will get to know, like, um, very, very easy to understand.
But what are the limitations of this template?
Why we call it as legacy or traditional way of communication in spring application.
So the one of the biggest problem, which I feel is in the rest template, there are so many overloaded
method.
So this method which I have covered write, execute, exchange delete put post post for object, get
for entity, get for object.
These are.
You can say that very very few methods I have covered even for get for object you will see three overloaded
method for get for entity you will find three overloaded methods similarly for this.
Similarly for this.
Similarly for this there are so many overloaded method you get confused and which one to use when.
And also it's very difficult to remember and maintain also.
So this is one of the biggest challenge.
Second is this template was built before the concept like retry, circuit breaker etc..
So yes there is a support present into the rest template, but it's more you can know that more overloaded
methods are there.
That's why I tell you that if you want to use a circuit breaker functionality, you will find one overloaded
method for this.
For this, because you have to support for all any new feature you have to add.
Just see that any new feature you have to add, you have to add for all the flavors get post, put,
delete, exchange.
So means like you have to keep on adding the overloaded methods for each of the new functionality you
introduce.
So it's not user friendly to use and it is not easy to remember.
Not easy to maintain.
So that's why Rest template is in maintenance mode.
No new feature, only bug fixes because nowadays in the HTTP request itself, there are so many new
new features coming like this functionality, this functionality like filtering, interceptor functionality.
So means they are not keep on appending new functionalities here now.
That's where the rest client comes into the picture.
Okay, so we will cover rest client into the next video.
But in short it's follow a builder style API.
Or we can always say that fluent API like there is no overloaded.
You can say that methods.
We don't have to remember it just like get put post.
That's all.
If you have to do a get get method no matter get for entity, get for object doesn't it provide has
the complete functionality.
So very easy to maintain user friendly and more readable code right?
We will see that how the Fluent and builder style API we have seen.
Okay.
And all the latest support it provide an easy integration like interceptor filters.
Very easy integrations are present right.
Those integration might be also present with Rest template.
But it's not like that easy.
They you there might be like some overloaded method which you have to know and see lot of parameter.
You have to pass to use that.
It is possible.
I'm not saying it's not possible, but it's not easy.
With Rest client you will see that those things are very, very easy.
So we'll see you in Rest client video in the next part.
And we will also come to the main.
This.
Spring cloud way of communicating between the microservice client okay.
So any doubt let me know in the comment section.
We'll discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- RestClient | Communication between Microservices ---

Welcome to concept and Coding.
And today we are going to start with Rest clients.
And we will understand it in depth.
But this is the prerequisite video video Rest template.
If you have any doubt regarding with this topic because that's where we have created the fundamentals.
Right.
So first have a look at this.
Then understanding Rest client would be little easy okay.
So if you remember in the previous video we know what are the limitations of Rest template.
So one of the biggest you can say that the limitation is so many overloaded methods.
It is very difficult to remember and maintain.
And that's what one of the advantage of Rest clients is that we are going to avoid these overloaded
methods.
But let's see what are the other alternatives of Rest templates.
So we can say that there are two alternative.
One is web client, another is rest line.
So here if you see the web client is asynchronous, non-blocking in nature means client.
Do not wait for the response from the server before continuing.
So this is used in reactive programming.
Generally when we will learn about spring web flux, I will cover web client into that one.
But generally we are covering synchronous communication right.
So Rest client is a synchronous blocking in nature like like a Rest template.
So means client wait for the response from the server before continuing okay.
And it is introduced in Spring framework six plus and Spring Boot three plus okay.
So you can say that this is a modern fluent based API that is more readable and easy to maintain.
Okay.
And this is more frequently used than Rest template.
We will see why.
Okay.
Now we have used one word fluent based API.
What is that?
Very, very important.
We need to understand this.
Then only we would be able to get how restaurant actually works.
Otherwise we might have to do lot of remembering thing like okay, now which method I have to use.
Okay.
So let's start with first very basic example.
Let's say that if order service has to invoke product service, what has to be done in rest line okay.
Then we will see that like okay once it is done how exactly it is working.
So we have a order service which is running on localhost 8081.
And the product service, I am running it on port 8082.
Now this is the first part in the App.config.
I am creating an object of Rest client.
So I am creating rest client dot create.
Internally it is calling rest client builder dot build.
So internally it does this.
Or you can even itself call Rest client or Builder.build.
Okay.
So this will create you a new object of Rest client.
It will give you a new object of Rest client.
Okay.
So that is the first step we have done.
Get an object of the rest client.
So in the second I have written very simple controller like we have seen in the rest template also.
Okay so I have written one API slash order slash id and this is my get method.
So here I am using this Rest client object which is created okay.
So I'm auto wiring it here.
Rest line.
Now see this rest line dot get dot URL which the exact URL which I want to hit which I want to invoke.
Dot retrieve dot body.
This is the body I wanted for my response string dot class.
So that's why I'm retrieving it in string only.
And here if you see I'm just printing out system dot dot print ln response from product API, which
is called from order service and whatever the response this is sending is this one.
And output is order called successful.
Now when I hit in the postman okay I call this slash order slash one.
Slash order slash one.
So order call is successful.
And in the logs it should print this response from product API call from order service.
And this is what I got from the.
Product service.
What?
It returns a string.
So here if you see this is the template which we are going to use for all different operations like
post put delete.
But here if you see its structure it's fluent.
So what is fluent.
Now you can ask one question.
Hey you are saying fluent.
This is fluent API.
What exactly fluent API means?
So see understand this one.
Fluent API means fluent API means chaining of methods.
Chaining of methods.
So what generally happen is you have method one.
Method one.
It is returning an object.
It is returning an object which Opens up different set of method.
Let's say method two.
Method three.
Method four.
Okay, so first you call method one.
Method one returns you an object which has this methods.
You can now call any of this method okay.
Now this method might return you different object which opens up different set of methods.
So what we are doing is we are doing chaining from method one.
We got some object.
Which opens up different set of methods.
So I have from method one I reach to method four.
From method four I reach to method six.
From method six I reach to some method eight, something like that.
So there is a chaining of method Okay.
So that's what we are doing here.
We are doing a chaining of method.
So these methods like dot get dot uri dot retrieve dot body.
They might not be present into just one class.
Okay.
Let's say this is class one.
This is class two.
This is class three.
This is class four.
So all these methods could be present into different different classes itself.
But the chaining is happening.
When I did dot get it returned me some object right.
Different different class object which has this URI method.
This dot uri might return me some object of totally different class which has this retrieve.
Now this retrieve again in turn, return me an object which has totally different, which belongs to
totally different class, this object and which has the body method.
So you got it.
I am doing a method chaining, and this method might be present in two different different methods.
Okay.
So that is known as fluent API.
I will show you how we are achieving this so that we don't have to, uh, up this thing that okay,
first I have to use get then I have to use URI.
Then I have to use retrieve.
Now, what is the purpose of using retrieve?
Why?
I have to keep body at last.
Right.
Because sequence matters, right?
In the chaining.
Because when we are saying chaining the chain should not break, the chain should not break.
If I directly call this method m2 of class two, it returning me an object of, let's say this object,
it returned me an object of this class.
So I can only goes to now class three.
Only I can now move back to class one.
This method one so chain will get break okay.
So sequence method matters in the chaining of methods and in the fluent API.
Okay.
And this is just an example for Get.
No matter we are going to use post put delete.
We have.
We are going to follow the same template.
We don't have to remember different different method overloaded methods which is there in the rest template.
Okay so that's what I told you.
What does fluent API means?
Fluent API means chaining of method calls each call.
Each method call returns an object of next step okay that expose next set of operations.
I have already explained what when we say when I say fluent API, what exactly it means.
So now our next doubt is how this chaining works in Rest client so that we understand better How this
dot get dot url dot header dot.
After that retrieve then dot body will work.
How it's working like this sequence is right, but I don't have to remember it right.
So how to grabs the like base so that we don't have to remember that okay.
Can I use header before URI or what have you or I can use after retrieve.
Is it possible.
Does chaining break or not.
So let's see this class diagrams.
So this class diagram you can say that this is the start of chain.
First this is the start of chain rest line.
So in the first step we are already creating a object of rest client.
Right.
Once we get the object of rest line then we have different methods that we can invoke.
Get, post, put, delete.
Okay then this is the second.
So here if you see these are many interfaces URI spec which expose methods related to setting the URI.
Either you can give me string or you can create a URI builder itself and then return me the URI.
Okay, then you have one interface for request header spec, which has various method to set the headers
and cookies.
Then we have one interface which is child of both URI spec.
So it extends URI spec and Request header spec.
Similarly we have one interface for body.
So during post and put we need to set the content type content length body right.
So this interface expose those methods.
Then there is an interface which is a child of both like request header URI.
It's a child of request header URI and the request body spec.
And then there is one implementation method default request body URL spec.
So it it's an implementation of this which ultimately provide implementation for all of these abstract
methods.
It all it provide implementation for all of this.
So you can say that this is ultimately the request.
No matter whether if you are creating get then also this object has to be created.
If you are building post or put or delete, no matter what operation you are doing, we have to create
an object of this and forget we might have to fill up some operation for post.
We might have to fill up some fields like I need to fill up the body.
So now the only thing is how to fill up this.
But one thing is second step is we have to create an object of this.
But we have to do chaining.
Like first I have to set URI, then I can set headers.
Then I can set body.
Then what next.
Okay so request build up.
And also if you see this is the third part where we have something called response spec okay.
Response spec actually knows how to handle the response.
So once we get a response from the server we have to do it's mapping.
Like I have to map whatever the object I am getting, I have to map it to string or I have mapped,
I have to map it to this object.
Okay.
And also if there is an exception How to do an exception handling like if the status is for access,
how?
What to do if status is five, what to do.
So this interface response spec has support us like on status.
So this is used for exception handling.
Okay.
And here if you see it has a method like two entity two body which ultimately helps in like uh calling
the execute method.
Or you can say that actual internally it actually invoke the method which is responsible for creating
TCP connection, sending HTTP requests, getting the response.
Okay.
And after that, this interface and this concrete class itself Help us.
In what?
Once the response we get back.
How to handle the response, we'll see that.
But this is a very high level.
I am telling you, these are the classes which we are going to use in our get put post operation.
But now we just need to see how the chaining works.
Okay.
So first thing first you need to know a little bit about generic class and wildcard and Java which I
have already covered in the Java series.
Okay.
So here if you see there are lot of generic types we are using, we are using wildcard, we are using
generic types.
Right.
So you should not get confused that what exactly and how it is working.
So now let's start with the get operation.
So here the first thing which we are doing is creating an object of rest line.
So either you can do dot create or you can do dot builder dot build right.
Okay.
So internally create also does the same thing only.
Okay.
So objective here is first get an object of Rest client.
Now once we get an object of rest line what I am doing now see the chaining.
The first I am calling dot get method.
So here if you go into the rest client interface okay.
When you invoke a get it creates an object of this class default request body URL spec.
So as I told you that ultimately we have to create an object of this because it has all the fields which
is required to make a TCP connection to send HTTP request and the response also how to handle the response.
So ultimately this object we have to create.
So during get it creates an object of default request body URI spec and set it HTTP method to get.
Okay.
And what is the return type.
It is returning.
It is returning request header URI specs.
The next object.
Okay so I am creating an object of this.
See.
So this object it's a child of request body URI spec which is again a child of request header URI spec
which is I am returning.
So it's a valid return type, even though I'm creating an object of this and returning this.
But the return type I can write this okay.
Because this is the parent of this one.
So from the get I am done.
This returns me an object of request header URI URL.
Okay, so now I am here.
From this I have.
See this is a child of two interfaces means I can invoke from here I can invoke the method of this interface
and this interface.
Okay.
So now next set of operations got open.
So currently I am going and invoking dot URI.
So also see the how sequencing matter.
The chain should not break okay I will also show you one of the flow where the chain breaks also.
So from here request header uri spec I decided to invoke the URI method okay okay.
Since this URI interface, which one is the implementation?
The same one.
We have already created an object in the uh.
Step one.
So this URI, it will fill up this URI.
right.
So I invoke this method uri and pass the string.
So internally it will create a URI object of this using some URI builder and set this field into this
object.
Now what?
Its return type.
Its return type is this.
Any child or even this class itself.
So S extends.
So what does it mean S extends.
And let's say class name.
So this means that the return type or here what the type here is the type here could be any either this
class this class name a let's say any class which is child of this class name A or this itself.
So either this class name A itself or any child of it.
So child one, child two.
Child three.
So here I can get either class name A or C, one child one or child two or child three.
All are valid.
Okay.
That's what because I am bounding the limit of the type.
What I can get here in the URI spec.
What I can get here, either I can get this type or its child type.
So either I can get this type request header spec or its any of its child.
Okay, so now since I don't know what child it is because request header spec which is this request
header spec.
It has many child.
So this is child one.
This is child two.
This is child three.
It could be many childs right.
I don't know specifically which child it is corresponding to Do because here I am sending wild card.
So I do not know because the same wild card is passed to here.
Same wild card is passed to here.
So I do not know which child I am referring to.
So it uses by default the parent.
Okay, so now I dot url return me an object of the next.
Class or interface which is request header spec.
So S is now request header spec.
So now I am calling accept method.
So it is calling the accept method on this interface.
And it has its implementation might be provided here.
Accept implementation would be there.
So it might be setting some header.
Okay.
Now what is the return type of this s here itself.
So S extends request header spec.
Again the same thing.
The type could be request header respect the same class it is now calling to its same itself or its
any of its child.
But since we don't know what child it is either child one, child two.
Child three the by default it is pointing to itself.
Request header.
Respect.
So for the except method return type its itself.
Okay, so you are getting an object, but that object is the same same class itself.
Now here I am calling more methods like dot header.
So I am also able to set the header.
So I'm calling invoking a method which is present in now the same class.
So this header also return type is S which is again it's of same type same class type.
Okay.
So from header I also get a return object which is again of same type.
So I'm able to call the method retrieve, which is also present into the same class.
So retrieve is also present here in this itself.
So I invoke retrieve.
Now the when I call retrieve its return type is different.
Now means it is returning me an object of some different class.
Okay.
So what it does.
So retrieve creates an object of this response aspect.
So default response spec is an implementation of this.
So it create an object and return me this.
So I'm getting an object of response spec now.
So I'm getting an object of response spec means I am getting a new object which has different set of
methods.
Now I can call methods which are present into the objects which this retrieve has returned.
So I got a response spec object.
So from there I called the body.
So I called the body.
So its implementation is present here.
So this body internally calls the method which actually does the work of creating a TCP connection and
sending this.
So here it invokes the exchange method.
And exchange method is again present into this header spec.
Okay.
So it is calling this one.
Okay.
So the reason why we come from request header respect to this response spec.
Because in the body before we calling this exchange method which actually handles create a TCP connection
send the request get the response.
We are passing this functional interface implementation here.
Like how to.
How to do the mapping of response.
How to handle the exception.
We provide the implementation of this functional interface and then call this.
And this here it provide an implementation of exchange where ultimately it goes at and create a TCP
connection.
Send a request and get a response.
So here if you see the flow become complete.
But I will also show you like if we don't follow the sequence how the flow breaks okay.
Don't worry about first of all don't worry about if you don't understand response spec clearly, if
you don't understand how this connection is happening, how this exchange works currently, I want you
to focus on the flow.
How this understand fluent API.
What is fluent API.
So even though we are calling this sequence of methods how exactly it moves from one class to different
class, then another to different class.
Okay, so chaining of methods which are present into different different classes.
Okay.
So see can a flow be broken if you don't follow a sequence.
Let's see that.
I create an object of the rest line.
I do rest line dot get when I did a get.
You know that what happened.
It will create me an object of this and it will set the HTTP method.
Get and return me an object of request header URL specs, which is a valid even though I am returning
this object, because this is ultimately a child of this only.
So it's a valid return type.
So now I got an object.
So I am here now.
So from this I have an option to call URI or this methods because this class is a child of both.
It's a child of both.
So now, instead of calling Uri, I decided to call the accept.
So now I am calling this accept.
So what?
Accept will do.
Accept.
Set the header.
It's inside a header.
It will set.
Accept application slash JSON header and value.
Okay.
But what it's return type.
Return type is S which is either request header spec which is the same class or any of its child.
Since we don't know which child it is.
Child one.
Child two.
Child three because currently it is coming as from here, it is coming as question mark wildcard and
the same we have passed here.
Okay, so it is coming as a wildcard, but we know that either it's a request header respect or any
of its child.
But since we don't know the exact child it's always safe to treat it as the same parent only.
Okay, so it is now returning an object of itself.
Request header spec.
So this returning an object of the same request header spec.
So now can you call URL now.
No because this is a total different interface which has this URI method.
And it is now not present into request header spec.
Now the chain is broken.
You can't set the URI so means your you can't even send the request.
URI is not itself set.
So you have to follow a proper sequence that are from method one.
I goes to method two.
From method two I goes to method three like this.
And the chain complete.
Got it.
So similarly, let's see a post.
And while we reached till the delete right.
This whole diagram will get clear to you for sure.
Okay, so first thing first, creating an object of Rest client.
Now first thing I am doing is calling post.
So now Rest client has post method.
The same post will do.
Creating an object of this and sending the http method to post and it returns this object.
Default request.
So here what is the return type request body URI spec.
Is it valid?
So this default request body URI is a child of request body URI spec Request.body URI spec we are sending.
So it's a valid.
So I am sending.
It's this it's parent only.
Okay so I created an object of this but return type I put it as this.
And it's a valid because it's a parent of this one.
Okay.
So now I reached till this point.
From this point it's a child of.
So this is its parent one.
This is parent two interfaces.
Right.
So I can invoke methods which is here invoke method which is here and which is again a child of this
class.
And this class.
So means from this point I can invoke any method.
Either you or I either accept header, retrieve, exchange body, any method because this class is a
child of all.
So what I did I call the URI because chaining matters.
I don't want to break the chain.
If I call accept, I can't move back to URI because nobody is returning me an object of URI spec again.
So that's why from here I call the URI.
So URI will set me the URL and what its return type.
Now understand that what would be the return type.
So here if you see it is a child of request header URI spec.
And what is the type it is passing request body spec okay.
So now this will translate to request body spec which is this one okay.
And is it fulfilling this either either parent request or respect or any of its child.
So here this is parent or any of its child.
So this is its child.
This is child.
So I'm putting one of its child only.
Request body spec is child of this only.
So it's a valid one okay.
And in the URI spec I'm passing this what I'm getting.
So here itself this get translated to request body spec.
And ultimately this S itself is request body spec object.
So means I reached till this point now.
Sorry.
So now in the URI, return me an object of request body spec which has its own methods to set the body.
Okay.
Set the body.
Set the content type, content length.
It has many methods.
So now we can invoke that.
And also we can invoke its parent.
We can also invoke its parent accept header retrieve.
So I am calling the its parent method.
Except I am calling its parent method accept.
So it will set the header.
But what would be its return type.
Its return type is S.
So here if you see this request body spec extends the parent and pass.
What is the type.
that's itself.
So this type is translate to request body spec itself.
And this S itself.
S get translated to this request.
Body spec means this class itself.
So means this return type is this object itself.
So I will reach to this point itself again.
So after accept I got an object of request body spec class itself.
From there I decided again to call the parent, which it returned.
Return me an S which is again object of request body spec itself.
Then I call the body method which is present inside this.
Sorry, which which is present inside this.
I set the body because during post operation, let's say I want to create a new operation.
I set the body okay and it returns me same object.
Now from there I call the retrieve because still I can call the parent node, right?
So I call the retrieve.
So I reached till this point now.
So from retrieve what it will do is it will get me an object of default response spec.
It will create me an object of this which is used to, uh, to handle the response.
And it returns me this response spec.
So now this returned me an object of different class response spec.
And then I call the two entity of that one.
So I call the response spec two entity.
So two entity.
If you see that it will internally invoke the exchange method which is present inside this header itself.
And this exchange implementation is present here in its implementation.
And all the request is already properly filled up headers and all so it knows how to make a connection.
But it is coming from here, as I already told you, that we call this exchange method.
But in the exchange function we tell this is a lambda expression.
We pass the functionality, how to handle response, how to handle status or exception handling.
And do I need to close the connection response connection or not?
True.
False.
So that info come from this and your flow get completes.
So at this point of time internally it calls this exchange method which create TCP connection, send
request, get response do mapping and give us the response.
Similarly delete.
So you can go through delete by yourself right.
But now you will get the flow.
What?
Till this point, my aim is that you understand what is fluent API and how Rest client adhere to this
framework of fluent API from one method to another, which belongs to different class, and these are
the classes involved in the rest API.
Delete is also very same like first goes to delete.
It creates an object of this.
Then it will return header url spec.
So I come here.
Then I call uri from URI.
It would be like so it's a question mark right.
So I don't know which exact child.
So I can't go to this or this.
So that's why I go to its parent.
So it called retrieve it.
Get me an object of response from response.
I ultimately invoke this two bodyless entity because in delete you don't receive body and send body
okay.
Then ultimately internally it invokes this exchange method and I pass the.
This functional interface expression here itself.
So we will see that.
But I hope the fluent API is clear.
If anybody asks you in future is Rest API is fluent.
Yes.
How?
Now I believe you should be able to tell how what classes are involved and how these classes are actually
linked together to make the rest API fluent.
Sorry if I stretched a bit, but it is very important to understand the fluent API.
Now let's go and see exception handling.
So now I am very going, very specific going inside this response spec.
Okay so see this one I am creating a controller.
So I have written I want to do a get call dot get I specify the URI, the endpoint which I want to hit
when I call dot retrieve.
Now we know that when we call retrieve, we get an object of response spec.
Okay.
So it creates.
So we have a constructor.
In this constructor it set this object request header spec.
Because from here itself we are invoking from request header spec.
If you remember the diagram from request header spec itself we are calling the retrieve.
Okay.
So it has the reference.
So this gets set.
Okay.
But now I got an object of the response spec.
Now till now nothing happened.
So the even though the name said retrieve I am not retrieving the response.
I am not hitting the client or server.
I am not getting the actual response.
It is just giving me the response object.
That's all.
Nothing much till now.
Response object means this response spec object.
Now I am filling it up.
First I am telling it on status.
I am telling it that once you get a response in future, how you should handle the exception.
So I am calling its on status method and it has a response error handler which has this.
So response error handler is a functional interface which has.
This method has error.
It has only one abstract method has error which accept response.
So I am providing its lambda expression response.
If response is for access means some invalid input request, then I am just saying my custom exception.
Throw this Else if if response is five xx something wrong at the server side itself there.
Okay, so it's an internal server or null.
Uh just put internal server error.
Okay.
We do not know what exception come.
Okay.
Otherwise return false has error.
No.
No error.
Okay.
So this implementation.
So this implementation I passed into this handler.
And now this when this on status get invoked after retrieve I get an object of response spec.
From this response spec I called on status.
So it update the status handler this field.
Okay, so with this info, whatever the info I provided here that if for access this implementation,
this implementation ultimately gets set into this status handler, okay.
And after that it will return me an object.
So what object on status is returning?
On status is returning where it is on status is returning me.
The same response is back itself.
So I am whatever the object which I am getting.
It is like body is itself the same.
So I'm getting the response object itself.
Then I invoke the body.
Now in the body, if you see what happened, just see little bit more concentration here.
So in body I tell whatever the response I get I need to map to a string.
Okay.
So now here if you see the body in the body what exactly happens is it calls execute and extract which
internally call this exchange method.
But what I am passing here I am passing it this.
When I called exchange it has it required this exchange function, this exchange function I am providing
here.
Actually it is the framework which is providing request response read body.
Okay.
How you should once you get a response how you should handle it.
So here if you see this read body has like message converter like whatever the first you handle the
status handler we have already had set the status handler right.
If status is for access, throw this exception.
If it is five access, throw this exception.
Else false move ahead and after that it will go.
And whatever the response I get it will convert to its this type string dot class.
It will do map mapping.
It will do mapping to this.
So all this logic I provided into this lambda expression.
This function.
Okay.
So once now at this point of time I will call tcp http request.
And once I get the response ultimately then it will execute this function.
We'll see that.
Okay.
So on status is used for handling the exception.
And this is where how we can handle the exception.
So if you want full control over response building.
So someone says that hey why I have to call from here.
Why I have to do retrieve why my control first go to here and from again I have to come to this okay.
Why I since when I am in this method.
Okay, I added the except I added the header instead of calling retrieve canine directly called exchange
and I will provide my implementation that how the response should be handled.
Yeah you can do that.
That's what I am doing it here.
So I did the get it returned me an object.
From there, I call the Uri.
Uri returned me an object.
From there I called the dot exchange itself.
Okay, because after Uri I reached to this point.
I reached to this point.
After I reached to this point.
From there, I directly called exchange.
I don't call retrieve now because retrieve only helps me in providing this implementation, right?
This implementation, this implementation.
Okay, retrieve only help me getting this implementation.
So I am providing my, uh, since this is the function interface, I'm providing my implementation here.
So request response if response is for do this.
If it is five, do this else.
This is how you should map the response which once means you will get from the server.
So whatever the response dot get body.
I am currently doing mapping to string.
I'm reading I'm from the stream.
I am copying it to string object.
Okay, now you don't need this response spec.
Now you don't need response spec methods.
You don't want on status.
You don't want body.
You don't want to entity.
You don't want anything because you have already passed the.
Exchange function like how you should handle the response.
Okay.
Now let's see a little bit insight into the exchange method.
So once we call the exchange, either by directly us or this response, it's pack itself internally
when we call dot body or dot to entity internally it call exchange method of this one it called exchange
method of this one.
Right.
So let's see its implementation.
So this is the implementation of exchange.
So this is the first step where it create a request okay.
This is the place where it actually creates a object of.
HTTP client.
And remember that in Rest client this HTTP client is different than in HTTP 1.1 okay this is different
object I will show you.
So this is the first.
So here if you see second is calling execute.
This is where internally it calls create TCP connection send request get response.
And once you get the response we have to do the mapping.
So here it is calling exchange function dot exchange.
So we are running the exchange function.
So what are the functions we are passing here.
Right.
We saw that this exchange function this one this is exchange function okay.
And here.
We are passing this exchange function.
If you are using this response spec which tells us how to map the response and how to handle the exception.
So this is running at the third step.
Once you get the response it will run the exchange function.
So first it is calling the create request, which it returns, which it calls this default factory,
which is JDK client.
HTTP request factory.
This is in the rest line.
This is the default.
It will create an object of HTTP client.
Again, this HTTP client is different than what we used in HTTP one HTTP 1.1 version.
This HTTP client is present inside this package.
Java dot net dot http and this HTTP client supports takes care of everything TCP connection caching
your sending request response right?
It takes care of everything.
Also, this HTTP client has support for HTTP version 1.1 and HTTP ATP version two.
Remember that Rest template can only handle 1.0 and 1.1.
It can handle till two.
If you remember, HTTP version two can send client server can send multiple concurrent request HTTP
request and the server can concurrently send the response.
But in 1.1 it's always like request response request response.
So if you want HTTP version two, you have to use the Rest client because this latest HTTP client object
provides support for that.
Okay.
So it creates an object of HTTP client returns it okay.
After that it will call the execute method.
This execute method internally calls the sender.
Okay, so we have already created an object of HTTP client.
So using that it calls the send a sync.
Even though it's a sender sing it's not actually Rest.
Client is a synchronous.
So it actually wait for the response.
It here it do wait it wait for it to finish.
So I told you this HTTP client internally takes care of connection caching support, provide support,
sending requests, getting the response and ultimately it give us the response.
Now once we get the response it calls the third exchange function.
Exchange function.
You know that which now know how to handle the response.
So here we have created one exchange function.
How if error comes how to handle it.
If this exception occur throw this exception.
If this exception comes throw this error.
So otherwise how to map the body either in a string or either map to some different object.
So all this logic present inside this here, which now executed at this point of time.
Okay, so this is the high level flow for it.
Now one more thing is if you see interceptor work is also very simple into the rest line.
So I have an order service product service.
Now if I have to add an interceptor first what I have did is I have created an interceptor my custom
request interceptor and implement the client HTTP request interceptor.
You have to implement this one.
Now you have to provide an implementation of this method.
So what I have to do is whatever the request I have, I am fetching its header.
Now I am adding certain more data, so I'm intercepting the request and adding appending some value.
So I have appended one header and proceed the execution now.
Okay, so it provide me all the methods I have to just say that okay I have intercepted it, I have
done whatever.
Now you go ahead and execute.
Okay.
So that's the first thing we have to do.
And in the second while creating a Rest client instance.
Right.
We can call dot builder dot build.
So there we can set the interceptor.
So this is our interceptor which we have created.
So I have created an object of my interceptor here.
And I have set it here.
So while creating an object of Rest client we can set an interceptor.
And that's all.
So this is as it is what we have written before.
I have a rest line client.
I did dot get dot url dot retrieve two entity and that's all.
Ultimately, if you see when the control comes here, invoke it.
It has the header X custom header.
My value whatever I have intercepted and set.
Okay.
And if the question coming to your mind that at what place in this uh, so we have an exchange right.
We have seen step one, step two, step three.
In what exact place this interception catch.
So if you see when we do execute this is the place where we call TCP connection.
Send the request receive the response.
So before calling this method the interceptor will get invoked.
So before this method interceptor get invoked.
And after that we just uh Are here.
Interceptor got invoked.
We did whatever we have to do on request.
After that, we have to call execute so that it can move ahead.
Okay.
So this is all about rest line.
To be honest, I can understand here it is not that simple.
If you are going in deep I can even stick to one level higher.
I don't even I really thought multiple times should I go into this flow.
Because this is not simple to understand.
There are so many jargons, generic types and all using so it making the flow a little difficult.
I was not able to decide whether I should go or not in depth this much, or I just cover that.
What is fluent API and this methods which are available.
But I took a chance that if I'm able to explain this clearly or not.
I tried a lot to create a better example and this diagram with flow.
I took a chance that if I can explain this complicated flow with ease.
So please have a look one more time you will get understand about properly what is fluent API.
How this flow chaining happens works right?
If you want to handle the exception handling, how you can do that right?
Exception handling is also very simple okay.
This response is back.
What is its use right.
How it's helping us in the mapping response mapping and exception handling.
So all these things you will try with your hand right.
You will get it clear.
If you get any doubt please feel free to comment and we can discuss further.
Right.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- FeignClient in Spring Boot Microservices | Declarative HTTP Client ---

Share on this site.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to start with new topic in Spring Boot Microservices that is spring Client.
We have already covered Rest template and Rest client.
And today this is the new topic in the microservices communication.
So in future if we have to do microservices communication, most probably we are going to use this only
right.
Why?
You will automatically get to know what are the advantages for it right?
It's very easy.
So let's start without wasting any further time.
So Pheng is a declarative.
Remember this word.
It's a declarative HTTP client developed by Netflix.
Declarative means we tell what to do, not how to do like.
So we are only telling.
We want to communicate with X service.
Let's say Said we told.
But how?
Internally we have framework for it.
So this is you can say that it has a framework which handles how it will communicate.
We only tell that, yes, our service order service has to communicate with, let's say, product service.
That's all okay.
And how this framework will handle it.
We will see that.
So in Spring Boot fake capability is available via Spring Cloud open frame library okay.
So the capability which is developed by Netflix in this framework is available in Spring Cloud Library
in open frame library okay.
So now here one of the thing is we need to know what is spring cloud like.
So spring cloud considered as a set of tools and libraries Brady's, which helps to build distributed
microservices.
So you know that when we develop a distributed microservices, lot of topics or lot of features, you
can say that required like service discovery, uh, client side load balancing, circuit breaker, API
gateway, distributed tracing, centralized configuration.
So so many things comes into the picture when we talk about distributed microservice okay.
So Spring Cloud has seamless provides seamless integration between all these functionality okay.
So that's why in future one of the reason I told right, in future if we have to use microservice communication
functionality, we will make use of open library.
Why?
Because one thing is it is a part of a spring cloud and it has seamless integration with all of this
features service discovery feature load balancing feature API gateway you want.
So we have libraries for each one of it, and it all have very closely integrated integrated with each
other.
Right.
So we'll see that how it works in the future.
But today let's keep focus on open library.
So that's the first thing we have to do in the Pom.xml.
We have to add the library.
So we added the library of Spring Framework Cloud of open Fame.
Now here one thing you notice that I haven't provided the version.
I haven't provided the version.
Why?
But I have added this dependency management okay.
So in dependency management I have provided spring cloud dependency and give this version.
But here I haven't provided the version.
The reason being that the same thing.
I'm coming back again.
In future we might have to code for service discovery.
So we have to add it's library.
We have to code for load balancing.
We want this feature.
We have to add it's library.
So we are going to add multiple libraries of spring cloud right.
And so let's say I have one library for open fan I have another library for service discovery I have
another library for load balancer.
Okay.
So all its versions, all its version should be compatible with each other.
So either you write version here and in future if you add more spring cloud dependency let's say service
discovery.
So it's version should be compatible with whatever the version you are using for the Openfeint.
Okay, so if in future you are adding load balancer so its version should be compatible with the service
discovery, whatever the version you are using and the version with the Openfeint.
Right.
So all should be compatible.
Spring cloud version should be compatible with each other.
So I don't want to do this right.
I don't want to handle all this manually versions.
That's where the dependency management comes into the picture okay.
So spring cloud dependency we can use okay.
It's not like a mandatory you can use it.
Or if you want you can put a latest version here.
Right.
But in future you have to make sure that if you are also using service discovery and you are using its
version, you need to make sure that both these versions are compatible to each other.
But if you don't want all this headache and you don't want to manage it manually.
We can leave up to Spring boot itself like we are using spring cloud dependency now.
Maven will take care that all the dependency it will bring in which are compatible, right?
So even if you are using service discovery, we will not write version.
If you are using load balancer, we will not write its version.
So proper version will be automatically added by Maven.
Okay.
With the help of this dependency management.
Okay.
So the first thing we have added is dependency in our pom.xml.
Now this is our requirement.
We have an order service which is running on port number 8081.
And this auto service need to invoke the product service like we have seen in the previous Rest client
also, which is running on localhost 8082.
So now what?
How this communication will happen in fan client.
So the first here if you see.
We are writing an interface.
So I am writing in the order service.
I need to communicate with product service.
Right.
So I'm writing one interface and give it a name product client.
And here if you see I have written one method right get product by ID what is the path variable?
I give provided the path variable ID and get mapping.
So it's just like how we used to define in the controller.
If you see that generally in controller we define any API, right.
Similarly like this I am defining here.
So what exactly I am doing here.
So here if you see actually I am telling that which endpoint I have to communicate of the product service.
So product service has the slash product slash ID.
So that's your get call I want to make a get call get mapping get call of this API okay.
And you can give a method.
And this ID is nothing but a path variable.
So whatever the ID it will come.
It will replace here okay.
So very very similar to what we generally define in the controller okay.
And since it's an interface we don't have to implement it.
So see this thing we are not writing any logic.
We are just told what to call or what to do, but not how.
We just only told that yes, we have to invoke this API slash products.
Slash id okay.
And this id is replaced by this path variable okay.
And how it has to be invoked.
We haven't provided any implementation okay.
And on the top of this interface this is very important that we have annotated with at the rate frame
line that this is considered this as a fake line, because this spring fake framework frame from client
framework internally has to provide an implementation for this.
Right?
Okay.
Because not for each normal interface, whatever the method you will write automatically its implementation
will happen.
No.
So for this interface we have to annotate with fake line.
We have to give any arbitrary name.
You can give any arbitrary name.
So I have just provided like this.
Uh, name of this string client, let's say product hyphen service.
You can give any name.
Okay.
And the URL, it's like the base URL.
So this is considered as a base URL localhost 8082.
Right.
Host and the port okay.
So this is the URL.
And I am currently reading it from application dot properties.
So in the application dot properties I have provided this link faint dot client dot product hyphen service
dot URL.
You can give anything okay.
You can give anything.
And here I have provided the host and the port.
So this URL this base URL will get replaced here okay.
So first thing first what we have done is we have created an interface annotated with Franklin okay.
And there we have provided the base URL and we have written a method right and provided like which exact
API we have to invoke.
Okay, so you can see that it has a direct mapping here with the product service.
So product service has this API.
So we want to invoke this.
So that's where what we have provided here.
Similarly it is get mapping.
So here also it is get mapping.
Okay.
The end point which we have to invoke okay.
So this end point for this one get product endpoint is slash product slash ID.
So that's here.
And this ID is replaced by this path variable okay.
So this things will get more clear.
But first thing is we have to create such interface.
No implementation is required okay.
Application dot properties.
We have already seen that this base URL.
Either you can hardcode it or if you don't want to hardcode it, you can read it from application.properties
like this.
You can give any URL which you any path which you wanted.
It's not like you have to like follow this only thing dot client dot.
You can give anything whatever the name you want to give.
The third thing is controller.
Now here if you see in the controller I am doing auto wiring of this product line.
I am doing an auto wiring of this product line.
So product line I am doing auto wired.
Okay.
And uh in this order API, let's say I have to invoke the product API in this order.
In this order method I have to invoke the product API.
So I will use this client product client dot I will call this method get product by ID.
And let's say whatever the ID you want to pass, you can pass it or you can pass any value okay.
And that's all.
That's all.
So here if you see, you will get a response.
So what is the response you expecting a response of a string.
So here I am catching the response in a string only.
And I'm just printing response from product API call is whatever I will get here.
Order call successful.
And last thing very small thing, but very important is in your application in your order service application,
you just have to enable the fake clients like at the rate enable fake clients by default it's false.
So we once we write this annotation, what happens is it will tell Springboot to scan for interfaces
annotated with fake line.
Okay.
Without this spring boot will not even go and scan this interfaces which are annotated with faint line.
No.
So we have to use this annotation.
And only after that you can say that faint line is unlabeled in our code.
Okay.
And after that, only our spring boot will start looking for this annotation.
All the interfaces with this annotation.
So four things we are doing.
We are writing the interface.
Don't worry if you haven't understood much about it currently.
For now, just understand like what?
All things required to make a communication using faint line.
First thing is we need to create one interface.
That's all.
No implementation.
Second thing is application.properties not mandatory either you can hardcode the URL here, or it's
better if you use Application.properties to define the base URL so that it is easier to change in future.
The third thing is like wherever, whatever the service layer or wherever you want to Invoke the product
API.
So you have to auto wire it and just invoke the method and the response you will get.
And just use it like how you want it to use.
And the fourth is that you have to enable it in your spring application.
Okay.
Now if you start and invoke the API here, if you see order call successful this one order call successful
and it should print this system dot dot dot print.
So here if you see it is printing.
So it is invoking the endpoint product endpoint.
It is invoking like fetch the product details.
So this one is returning this one.
So it returned this it catch it here and then printed it.
So here if you see how easy it is to make a microservice communication.
I haven't written anything like uh dot even let's say even in the rest line.
Rest line is also easy, right?
Fluent API like.
But here I have to tell.
I have to tell like how to communicate.
But here, if itself I haven't done any implementation, I haven't done any implementation.
All I have done is which API I have to talk to.
Okay, so one question definitely comes to your mind is how how this declarative thing works.
So here if you see the very basic question which I am saying which comes to your mind is that hey Shreyansh,
we have created an interface product line annotated with faint line.
It's okay, but still we haven't provided any implementation for this method.
Okay, but in the order controller we are doing auto wiring.
If you see this, we are doing auto wiring right.
Auto wired.
How come?
How come I am able to?
Or when you are doing auto?
Why means an object is present.
Okay.
So interface you can't create an object right.
So somebody has provided its implementation and that implementation objects comes here.
But how.
I haven't provided this implementation.
So who has provided it.
The Feng client framework.
How.
See this.
It's not easy.
But let me try to explain in a very simple method what happened in the behind.
So it will make you things clear.
And you don't have to muck this up.
That okay, this this should be done like this only.
So let's see the flow.
Then it will give you a very intuitive like how to use this client and how it's actually might be internally
working.
So now let's say that we have done till here like we have written only interface with client, not implementation.
We have auto wiring it right?
So when we have started the application, right when we started the application, what would happen
since we have provided this annotation at the rate unable for clients, it will scan for fake line interface.
That's the first thing it will do.
It will scan all the interfaces which are annotated with client.
Okay, now for each interface it will invoke this reflective Fink class.
And in that there is a method called new instance.
So for each interface it invoke this method which is present in Reflective Fink class.
Okay.
Now this is very important class because it does three things.
The first thing which it does is create an object of method handler okay.
So for each.
So now let's say that for each interface.
Now in this interface.
Interface one let's say it has two method.
Method one.
Method two.
So for each method it will run and it will create an object of method handler.
Now what is method handler?
Method handler object holds complete info that is passed from method and its annotation, and these
all info is needed to execute the HTTP request.
So what generally happens is now from each method it do a parsing okay it understand its annotations
right and it will update all these fields like target URL.
So target URL is nothing but a base URL plus relative path.
So here if you see that in the your interface at the rate Franklin we provided the URL right.
So this is your base URL and your relative path is in the at the rate get mapping.
We were providing slash product slash ID.
So this is your relative path.
This is your relative path okay.
So this variable got filled up HTTP method get put or post that is derived from annotation like at the
get mapping at the rate post mapping.
Similarly header info header info is derived from at the rate request header if there is any similarly
HTTP client variable.
So by default Franklin is using http url connection if you remember the rest template, it is also using
http url connection.
But if you want to use different, let's say http apache http client, we can configure it.
Okay.
But this is the default http url connection it uses.
If you want to change we can change it Okay then encoder.
So encoder is like convert the request body from Java object to HTTP format like JSON.
So consider this in the Rest client and Rest template.
We will call it serialization Deserialization right.
So similarly in the client it's like encoder decoder like Java object to JSON and decoder is like once
the response coming.
So from let's say JSON to Java object okay.
So it has provided its own default implementation is there.
It uses uh Jackson.
But if you want to configure ourself we can also do that.
So it's a configurable okay.
So this all fields get filled up.
Actually it is all present into method handler.
So from each method for each method this object is getting created okay.
Similarly we have error encoder error error decoder error decoder is like if you remember from the previous
video Rest client, we have something called exception handler.
So here it is something called very similar error decoder.
So if any exception comes 4 or 5 how to handle it okay.
So it has it provides a default implementation.
But if you want to configure it we can do our own implementation.
Also we have to do I will show you the example.
Also don't worry about that.
Similarly logger and retry.
So we are calling an API.
If any connection timeout happen how many times we have to retry two times three times.
So it is also in our control.
It also provide default implementation.
And also it's a configurable we can provide our own implementation also.
So here in the short if I have to summarize method handler is method handler is something which is derived
from the method right.
Like it's annotation And it's you can say that signature, right?
And all these fields get derived from that particular method.
And all these fields are very, very important which is needed to execute the actual HTTP request.
Okay.
So for each for each method it creates a map like okay this is the method.
Let's say this is the method right where it got.
Yeah this is get product by ID.
So this is the method this is the method handler okay.
Similarly if you have two methods.
So in the map you have both the details okay.
So first thing is for each method method handler is created which is derived the info from parsing the
method okay.
And these all info are important which is required to actually make an HTTP call and handle the response
right?
Everything.
All the info is present here.
Now, once you created this method handler and put it into the map, what it does is it creates an object
of invocation handler.
Very important.
Right?
So consider it as a bridge.
Right?
I will tell you like how it is act as a bridge.
But the next step which it does is create an object of invocation handler.
And whatever the map we have created here.
Right.
That is stored here inside this.
Okay.
So this also has this map method comma method handler okay.
So the object what we have created at the first step that is stored here now okay.
So that is the first thing we create an object of it and populate it whatever we have derived in the
step one here we have update this, populate this object map method handler.
And this also has one method invoke.
This invocation handler has one method invoke which act as a bridge, which act as a bridge between
proxy implementation and the method handler.
Okay, don't worry about this.
Now I will tell you how it acts as a bridge, but for now only remember this two things.
That invocation handler has this info like it has the map like for each method, what is the method
handler?
And it has one method called invoke, which act as a bridge between the proxy implementation and the
method handler.
Now what is proxy implementation?
So that's where the third step is okay, once we complete this third step right you will the whole picture
will get clear how it is, how this act as a bridge.
How the.
Total flow goes right.
That will all clear.
Now the third step is what this new instance.
So first.
So first step easy it create a method handler by parsing the method.
Second step also easy it create an object of invocation handler and whatever the map we have created,
it will populate inside it's object also.
The third step is it uses the dynamic proxy to create a runtime implementation of our interface.
So it created a dynamic proxy.
If you remember dynamic proxy is used to create a runtime like it.
Create a code for us at runtime.
So I was so that question right.
We haven't provided the implementation, but we are able to do the auto wiring means somebody is implementing
it right.
That's where this third step, it uses a dynamic proxy to create a runtime implementation.
So this is this is just a demo class.
So nowhere in the spring cloud open frame library you will find this class.
This is just my understanding that what dynamic proxy might be creating implementation for that.
Okay, so there is no such class like Fink product line proxy.
It is just my understanding and demo of how dynamic proxy would have implemented our interface product
line.
So we have this interface right.
Product line how this dynamic proxy would have created what code it might have written.
So that is just my understanding.
If you go and look you won't find this class.
Okay.
So this is.
Dynamically created by proxy okay.
So if you have to just understand what dynamic proxy or how it will generate the class, what that class
gonna look like.
So this is just a demo.
So let's say that it will create any name like this is just a demo.
Name It implements our interface.
Okay.
And here if you see it has handler.
Now since it is implementing our interface it has to provide a implementation for this method get product
by ID.
So that's where we provide an implementation.
Now here what it will do is it just call handler.
What is the invocation handler.
Right.
It will just invocation handler dot invoke right and pass this method.
Okay.
So we get the method right get product by ID.
So we get the method detail from here get product by id okay.
So it just invoke the handler.
So now you will get to know that what generally happen is.
Now let's say that in we are invoking from the controller class of order controller.
Now let's say I am calling.
Product client.
My interface.
Right.
Product line.
Dot product by ID something, let's say one.
Now I am invoking this method.
Now, now I am trying to invoke this method.
Now what would happen is this class will intercept it.
This is the class which dynamically has been created.
Okay.
So now this is the implementation for that my interface method.
Right.
So this will intercept it.
So control will come here.
What it will do is it will fetch the method.
Like we can find it like get product by ID right.
We will get its method detail.
We have already covered this in Java right.
How this reflection works.
So it will take out the method object.
Like we can easily take this out for each method.
Now it is.
Now from this method we can take out the The metadata.
What is the return type?
What is the parameter?
Right.
Is this public or private, etc. etc..
So now this I can get all the information about my get product by id method.
And now I am calling this handler which is invocation handler.
So it will call this invoke method.
Now if you remember I told you that this invoke method act as a bridge between the proxy implementation
and the method handler.
So now I got this from proxy implementation.
What it will do is it provided us me the method right.
This method.
So it has this variable map method comma method handler.
So from this method from this map it will take out the handler okay.
For this method what is the method handler.
Once it got the handler It called its invoke.
Okay.
So what it does is it acts as a bridge.
The call which is coming from proxy implementation from here.
I just got that method from here.
This map I take out that what is the method handler for that particular method.
And for that method handler I invoke the its invoke method.
So method handler also has this invoke method.
So method handler has all these fields.
Plus also has invoke method.
Now here if you see this method handler invoke method is actually creating the request object HTTP request.
And then ultimately executing it.
It's actually making a HTTP call here.
So this is the place where exact call will happen.
Execute.
Okay, so you got the flow and got the answer.
Like what internally happened?
Even we haven't provided the implementation.
We are able to auto wire it properly because of this flow.
Okay.
How this invocation handler act as a bridge between these two.
So if you go through this flow again, you will get to know and you will find your answer that what
internally happening behind this declarative.
So we only told what to do but how internally this code is determining it is doing parsing from the
annotation it determine what is the target URL header info client encoder decoder.
So it if you haven't provided it, it took the default.
If you provide it, it will fill it.
We will see that example how to provide all of this value also okay.
And then how proxy implementation gonna look like and how invocation handler act as a bridge.
Okay.
So this is just one example where I'm trying to use as much annotation possible.
So here the same I am creating an interface product line annotated with Fenc line.
Provide any name to your feign client.
Like I just give any arbitrary name I provided product service URL.
Either you can hardcode it or you can read it from application.properties.
Now this is one method.
Get product by ID it's a get call.
This is the relative path which I want to hit.
And this ID is generally read from this path variable like this id which I am get.
It's gonna.
Update it into this path variable.
Similarly I can write more at the rate put mapping Tapping the same value like.
What is the relative path and the consumes application dot JSON means.
What is my request?
Body content is it is JSON.
So here I have provided path variable like this id whatever I will get.
It should be updated into this path variable.
Plus there is a request param.
Also like after that question mark and send mail equals to true false okay.
So request param will get added after this header would get added I just added some uh custom header
okay.
So at the request header this API also has a body.
So request body okay.
So I have provided the body also.
So in the product application in the product application which is running on 8082.
So it has if you see this put mapping right They have one.
Corresponding end point which I want to invoke.
So it also has an input mapping.
Right.
So it also has like slash product slash update slash ID.
So that's what I wanted to hit okay.
Now here if you see that 1 to 1 mapping is not mandatory okay.
Spring boot will take care of like uh passing the values according to annotation.
So here if you see my first is let's say path variable.
Second is request param, third is request header.
Fourth is request body.
Here ordering is different.
First is path variable.
Second is request body.
And here it is last.
Here it is second.
But still it's okay.
It will work fine because spring boot while creating invoking this right it will based on this annotation
it will assign it will fill the values Okay, so 1 to 1 mapping is not required.
With the help of annotations, our client framework will get to know that the order.
Okay.
So very very very similar to how in controller we write a method.
Right.
Similarly like this we just have to write like what is the endpoint we have to invoke.
So now the next thing is like encoder decoder in the client.
So till now we haven't provided encoder decoder okay.
Generally if you see that in the rest client it's generally serialization Deserialization okay.
We can provide custom implementation.
And here if you see.
When the method handler object is created it has an field for encoder and decoder Okay.
Generally, if you don't provide it the by default it will use.
And I told you it's a configurable we can provide our own implementation.
How do we want to encode.
How do we want to decode.
So that's where we will see that like how it's happening.
So what does encoder means converts a Java object into a request body okay.
Because ultimately we have to send the let's say JSON.
So we can't send Java objects.
So serialization should have happened.
Say that.
So now here you can see that here in the client we are calling it encoder where we are converting a
Java object to respective request body let's say JSON.
Similarly decoder.
Once the response comes we have to convert it to a Java object okay.
So that's what it generally called as decoder like convert the HTTP response body, say it's coming
in JSON.
We have to convert it to the Java object, right?
If you remember in the rest line it's like serialization.
And in the deserialization we were doing manually, we were reading the stream and converting it to
an object.
Right.
The same thing here also it does internally.
So if you remember this method handler which I showed you here, right where ultimately, uh, it create
a request and invoke execute and decode it method handler.
So where exactly this encoder decoder comes into the picture.
So encoder if you go this where we are building the request right.
If you internally debug it okay you will find that it is doing encoder dot encode.
It's calling this method okay.
And it passed the body.
So internally this method it make use of encoder by default.
Internally it uses Jackson and in the request template not Rest template request template.
And in the request template body would be put as raw JSON.
Right.
So now here if you see that this encoder dot encode this encoder is an interface.
This encoder is an interface.
So there is a default implementation available.
Okay I think you can double check there is something called spring encoder.
I'm not sure you can double check.
So there is this encoder is an interface and there is a default implementation I think spring encoder
which provides an implementation which internally use Jackson and parse this okay.
It pass the body Java object and convert it to a raw JSON and put it into the request template body.
Similarly, where the decode will happen like once you get the response.
So this internally if you go to execute and decode internally, this method makes use of decoder.
So you will find this code decoder dot decode okay.
Similarly here decoder is an interface and it has like spring decoder class which implement this.
And it again uses Jackson.
So there it read the byte stream and convert it to a Java object like we used to do in rest line.
Okay.
But it's all now abstracted to us.
It just like we have to go and see what where exactly is happen so we can provide our own implementation
here.
Like we can implement the encoder and provide our own implementation here.
Custom implementation here.
Similarly, inside a decoder we can write our own class which implements it and write our own custom
decoder.
So that's what I am going to do.
Now if you want to write our custom encoder decoder what we can do.
So the first thing is.
I am creating an interface product line all exactly.
That is no change.
But remember see this.
Here I am annotating this interface with faint line, giving it an arbitrary name URL which is the base
URL.
Now this is the new like.
I am providing a configuration and I am writing new configuration product client config.
So see this.
Now in your application.
Let's say this is our order application.
Order application might have to communicate with product application product API's.
Let's say there is some other microservice, let's say sales APIs, some other microservice, let's
let's say user user APIs.
Okay, there could be different microservices.
This is let's say microservice one.
Microservice two.
Microservice three different different microservices okay.
So when I am talking with this product APIs, I want configuration specific to this.
Only when I talk with sales APIs I want configuration specific for this.
Maybe it's encoder.
It's decoder for example it's timeout read timeout connection.
Timeout is different than sales APIs right.
So we can easily do this like so here in the feign client you can provide a configuration and the class.
So this class now belongs to this fake client only.
Okay.
So this interface which is product line okay.
And here I have provided the configuration product line config.
So all these APIs which you will provide under this interface, this configuration would be applied
similarly you can have different like user client or sales client different client interface.
And you can provide different configuration.
So their configuration would be present for their APIs okay.
So there is no impacting between each other okay.
So that is one of the another advantage.
Like it's so clean that we can manage the configuration between different clients easily.
So this is let's say my one client product client sales client user client.
Right I can easily manage their configuration separately from each other okay.
So the first thing is Mentioning the configuration for this product line product line config dot class.
And that's where in the created one class product line config annotated with at the configuration.
Okay I'll come to this again.
So first thing is configuration.
We have to provide one config class for this product.
Now here if you see I am writing my custom product encoder.
So I told you encoder is an interface.
We just have to implement our custom interface.
So that's what I did implements the encoder.
So once we implement this interface we have to provide the functionality of this method.
And here I am just simply converting an object to JSON.
Very simple method just for testing like demo.
So what I'm using an object mapper and converting it to a raw JSON string.
And inside the request template I am putting this raw JSON okay.
Most similarly, the default also doing the same thing.
I don't have to provide a custom implementation for this, because default also almost does the same
thing.
The spring encoder also does the same thing, but just for testing.
If you have some different logic you can add here.
Similarly decoder I have provided my decoder product line decoder implements this decoder.
Now I have to provide this implementation.
And here I am reading the stream and from this stream I'm converting it to this type, whatever the
type which is coming okay.
So generally this type is like the return type of the method.
Okay.
Now we just have to create an object of this.
Like so in the configuration I have just created a bean for this two encoder and decoder.
Okay, so now what would happen is in our code whenever this encoder object is required.
Right.
So this would be used and decoder this would be used client decoder.
Okay.
And similarly on the same path itself all the custom different custom implementation which we have to
do is right.
We will do that right.
Like error decoder in fan client in rest client.
You remember it's called as exception handling when forks happen when fivex happen how to handle the
exception.
So it is used to handle non two status code like for access five access.
So here if you see this is the method handler code.
Okay so here it is running execute and decode right.
So internally once it get the response Once it gets the response, it analyzes the response.
And if there is an error, if it is not to excess, what it will do is it will call error decoder dot
decode okay.
Error decoder dot decoder.
So again error decoder you can say that it's an interface and it has.
A decode method okay.
So there is an implementation present in it.
So error decoder class.
So here if you see error decoder I think it's an interface.
You can double check it.
It's an interface.
And decode has a default implementation present in it.
We can check that error decoder.
Error decoder.
It's an interface.
So it's an interface.
And it has provided us the decode method okay.
So it has uh it has a default implementation for this error decoder.
So default implementation it is now implementing it.
Okay so this is.
Error decoder.
Error decoder dot default actually okay.
Error decoder dot default okay.
So default is the one which implementing this error decoder class and provides an implementation of
this method.
So here if you see what it is doing is simply is that it is returning the Fane exception.
Okay.
So in the Fane exception it include status code response body and header.
So generally this is how your exception gonna look like.
If any exception happen.
Right.
It's gonna look like this a bad request for an exception.
Bad request 400.
100 and your body.
If there is any error, that will also get included.
Okay.
But here, if you see that is not very much clear and you get a requirement that, hey, I need to handle
it differently, I don't want this kind of exception to be thrown.
Okay.
So what you can do write the same thing.
Error decoder.
Right.
We can write our own implementation.
That's what I am going to do now.
The first thing is first, whatever the interface we have created, this is the endpoint which we have
to invoke.
And for this product line I have annotated this interface with the pink line annotation.
And I have provided its configuration very very specific for this product.
Product line configuration.
Now I am writing my error decoder and implements the interface error decoder.
Now I have to implement the method decode method now whatever the logic which you want.
So I am very, very simple.
I am doing it like if status code is four x, throw this custom exception.
If status code is five, throw this custom exception.
I am writing this custom exception, right?
Uh, we have seen this in rest client itself.
We can write our own exception and we have already seen in Java tutorials also.
Now we can write our own exception.
So this is just a very simple right.
We can add status code message proper whatever we wanted.
So this is just a very very basic like what exception we want to throw.
Okay.
And uh if it is not for access, if it is not five access and if you want to handle the default the
again I am creating a default.
I told you right here it is error decoder dot default class which is implementing it.
So ultimately I will call this.
It will handle it okay.
If I am not able to handle it, ultimately I'll pass it to the default decode.
Hey, you handle it, okay?
And in this configuration, I just have to return a object of mine error decoder, which is the bean
of error decoder.
Okay, so now in code, whenever this error decoder code decode will get invoked, it will invoke mine
this class, not the default one okay.
And here if you see now this is how the exception will be thrown.
Bad request exception client error.
Because I am throwing this.
This is just an example.
We can have it a better way like you want it.
This is just an example.
Like whatever your custom exception you want you can throw it like way.
Another thing we have in something called retrial in Franklin.
So here if you see this is what method handler code is.
Right.
Method handler.
So here if you see any like here it is ultimately do execute and decode.
Now let's say any connection timeout happen.
So some it will catch it okay.
And then it will check.
Hey continue or propagate.
Continue means if there is a retry attempt left go and hit it one more time.
Try executing it one more time.
Else propagate it.
Let it catch by error.
Decoder.
Okay, so what's the default behavior?
Till now we haven't defined any retry.
So what's the default behavior for the retrial.
So retry only happen.
First thing is let's say before goes to the default.
Uh we need to understand that retry only happen when there is connection timeout and network related
exception that ioexception or something.
so it should be a retrievable exception.
Not like anything if it is 4 or 5.
Access.
At the start itself, it will directly go to error decoder itself only if it is retrieval exceptions.
It will try to retry.
It will try to make another attempt.
If all the attempt finished then error decoder ultimately will get invoked to handle the exception.
Okay, so here if you see the default which it's closed that retry dot clone.
So here the default one is it is the default which implements the retry.
It has this configuration maximum at m is five.
Five times it will do attempt okay 100 millisecond.
This 100 is the initial wait time call.
So let's say you are first time you are making an immediate attempt.
First time I'm calling a product API product API immediate attempt.
Let's say connection timeout happen.
So try to will happen only after 100 seconds.
Like so.
Wait.
Okay, now let's say that after 102nd try to happen that also connection timeout happen.
Now try three will wait for 200 milliseconds.
So double.
So it will double each time.
So the wait time get double each time okay.
So try for 400.
Try five 800 okay.
And the max cap is currently it's put the max is one second.
So maximum only is one second.
It can wait.
Not more than that after one second.
If it is let's say try six.
It will not like okay 1600 millisecond know maximum is one second.
Now after one second it will make try six, try seven, try eight.
How many?
Whatever the atom left.
So this is the maximum wait time.
This is the you can say that start initial wait time and it doubled with each retry okay.
So this is the default implementation.
And there is something called retry or never retry.
This is also present if you don't want to retry itself.
Not even default five times itself because default behavior is it will retry five.
Uh not retry.
Maximum attempt is four.
So one is actual call.
And then you can say that four is the retry.
So total five attempts.
So if you only want one attempt itself right you can use never retry retry dot never retry.
So in the configuration I am returning a bean of retry but called it never retry.
So we already have uh present in the class itself.
So like it has the default right?
Similarly, it has, uh, never retry where it has only one attempt.
Okay.
The actual immediate attempt only no retries.
But if you want custom implementation, okay.
That we can do also the same thing custom implementation is like we will make use of configuration very
specific to our interface product line.
Now use case one.
I only want to customize the attempt initial time or the maximum period time.
That's all rest.
The logic is the logic.
I can make use of the default one.
What is the rest of the logic like?
Hey, if your attempt is increase the max attempt, then you don't have to go and retry.
You have to throw exception like all this thing.
So I don't want to do all those logic.
All I want to do is configure these values.
Then what I do is I can write my custom retry or extend the default.
Okay.
Extend the default.
And in the constructor I pass the super this different values whatever I want.
Okay.
And all the method which it has make use of default only.
But if you want full control then you write your custom and try and implement the retry itself interface
itself.
So now you have to implement the method also.
So this is dot default is not an interface.
It's a class.
So I'm extending it.
Okay.
So this continue or propagate.
Actually it would be already present into the default.
All I am providing is different value of the configuration.
But if you implement this interface you have to provide the implementation for this method also.
So now you have to like full control.
What is the atom?
Max atom?
In this method, you have to like I'm just using a dummy.
Like, uh, if a temp is greater than or equals to max, atom means all the atoms are finished, then
you have to throw exception.
Otherwise do atom plus plus.
Then you have to sleep it.
So this is I have hard coded sleep for 100 milliseconds okay.
But generally the logic is there like double every time in the default.
So like if you want a complete logic, you can complete, uh, you can say that control over the implementation.
You can do this.
Otherwise you if you want a control over this values you can use default okay.
Once this is done.
And here if you see in the configuration in the bean I'm just returning creating my retrieve object
and returning the bean of this one.
Okay.
And also Last but not the least, during start.
And every time we are saying that whenever we are creating an interface, we are annotating it with
faint line and giving it an arbitrary name like say, product hyphen service, where this actual name
is helpful to us.
So this is one like you can say that it will come into an handy during configuration in application
dot properties.
So here if you see if I want to set a request and connection timeout only for product service.
Faint line only for this only for this faint line.
How I would set this for this faint line with the help of this name, because I have given the name
to this faint client.
Right?
And this faint client is there in the product line.
So I am providing this configuration in the Application.properties.
Hey faint dot client config dot the name of the client connect timeout is this similarly read timeout
this.
So now this connection timeout and read timeout is very very specific for this fain client product service
fain client this if you have multiple let's say uh sales client user client multiple clients you can
have different different different different connection timeout timeout.
For them I can have let's say user hyphen service I can give different timeout for them okay I have
like order hyphen service I can provide different timeout for them okay.
So this is one of the advantage here.
Also for each different client wise I can very easily configure the timeouts okay.
But let's say you have a requirement that hey.
a same time out, I want to apply for all.
Okay, then you just use default.
When you use default, it ultimately applies to all.
Like all feign clients all the feign clients.
This will get applied.
This timeout, connection timeout and timeout will get applied if you use default.
If you want to use very specific for your feign client, like only for product service, feign client
only.
For this, use a specific name okay?
And ultimately now at this point of time, you should be able to know that these configuration values
connection, timeout, timeout ultimately all this somewhere will get set into this.
This all somewhere there might be some variables which get filled up using this configurations.
Okay, because there are other variables fields also.
That's why I put etc..
So there could be some other field which is like connection time or time out.
What is the values it might reading from the application dot properties.
So but ultimately very important here is method handler.
It has all the variables fields which is important to make a connection.
And also it has a method which actually does all the things.
Create a request execute handle everything.
Okay so I have explained you all the flow and I hope if you go it one more time or you try to implement
it by your hand, the things will get clear.
The flow will get clear to you that how these things are working okay.
So if you have any doubt, let me know in the comment section we can discuss further.
Thank you guys.
Bye.

--- Service Discovery and its Implementation ---

Hey guys, and welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today in microservices topic I am going to cover a very important part is service discovery.
Right.
So we will cover both like interview perceptive questions.
And also we will see the implementation also how we can set up the service discovery servers and client.
And we'll see the demo also okay.
So in microservices service or component are created and deleted dynamically.
We can know that right.
So let's say our instance is itself.
Let's say we have our microservices order.
Definitely in microservices one of the advantage is that we can have as many instances based on the
traffic, but these number keep on changing.
If traffic is more, I can spawn more instances.
If traffic is less, I can reduce the number of instances.
So instances are created and deleted dynamically.
We cannot hardcode the URL of a particular instance.
It's not scalable and not feasible.
So till now, while we seen rest template, rest client, feign client order services, making call
to product service and everywhere we have hard coded the URL.
So it's okay for the testing perspective.
But in production we never hard code these URLs, right?
So in above example order service has hard coded the URL of the product service.
And it is okay till we have only one instance of product service.
If you have only one instance then it's okay.
You can hard code it.
But in case if you have multiple product service instance right.
And which is very very possible right.
Let's say in this scenario.
So I have instance one, instance two instance three all have different your IP address and port number
all has different IP address and port number, but if you have hard coded the URL, your traffic will
always go to one of the service only always goes to one of the service only.
Okay.
And it is also possible that a particular stance can be removed, but since you have hardcoded it,
you will try to connect to an instance which is removed.
Then you will face connectivity issue, right?
So there are lot of challenges like first is single point of failure.
Single point of failure is is hard coded instance of product service goes down order service will not
be able to communicate with other instance.
That is what I told.
Like if you have hardcoded it and I have removed this instance, then you won't be able to communicate
it.
So it's a single point of failure.
No load balancing.
So even though I have three services, since you have hardcoded it every time the traffic goes to this
instance only.
Even though my these two other instances are sitting idle.
Okay.
Tight coupling.
So because of hard coded URL in the order service, there is a tight coupling between order service
and product service.
Now let's say that I have to move the product service okay.
And maybe its IP and port address need to be changed.
Then you first have to update the order service.
And then only you can migrate your product service.
Otherwise it's not possible.
Okay.
So it brings the tight coupling difficulty in testing different environment might use different URL
which require frequent changes in your config.
So if you have hard coded it let's say now you are testing on r dev.
Then you need to change this.
If you're testing on stage you need to change this okay.
So with different test environment uh, production QA dev different URL.
And then you have to keep on changing it if you are doing a hard coded.
So one of the way we can overcome all this limitation is our service discovery.
And there are, uh, different, uh, tools like Eureka or Console.
Okay, so I am covering Eureka, which is like pretty much, uh, popular in the industry.
So but you can also go with the console also, the concept wise, very much similarity.
Okay.
So if you understand one other, you can easily grasp like what's going on.
So in service discovery there are two parts server and client.
So server act as a phone book okay.
Has all the instances info of the registered client like service name, instance ID, IP, port number,
health, etc..
So what is that server.
Server is the one which.
So this is the server.
Server is the one which actually keeps the details of all the instances.
So instance one details.
Instance two.
Details 345.
All the different instances.
It keeps the detail.
Only thing is only for the registered clients.
So clients have to register them.
So if you have multiple clients client one.
Client two client three.
So they have to registered with the server and then only it would be maintaining the data of it.
We will see that how it is maintaining how they can register it.
But just understand that for now that it is a phone book only for the registered clients.
So clients have registered and after that, once it is registered, then Eureka Server.
You can consider it as a phone book.
Like if you want a particular details of a registered client, you can get all the info that for this
is the client.
These are the instances.
This is the IP address, port number, health status up and down.
So if this client has ten instances, all the details you can get it.
Similarly, Eureka client most of the popular two client does is first register itself with the server
that let's say if you have a client, what you can do with the client first is registered itself with
the server that hey server maintain my instances and its info.
Okay?
Another is discover an instance.
Let's say that if this client one needs the detail of client two like this.
Client two has multiple instances okay.
And this client two is also registered with the server.
Means server is maintaining these all instances info.
Now this client one need the details of client to.
What it will do is discovers an instance.
So it will ask the server that hey I want to talk to client two.
Can you tell me the instances available.
So server now since it's a phone book, it can return all the possible instances of client two which
are up.
Okay.
So now see this diagram.
This is going to be flow now.
So now order service.
First get the list of a product service from the Eureka.
If it has to invoke the product service Eureka server will return the product service instances detail.
If there are ten instances of the product, it will return all the ten details which are up.
Okay.
And after that it will order.
Service is the one which choose a particular instance and then makes a call.
Okay, so there is couple of things.
This is very simplistic diagram.
There are many things like cache comes into the picture so that it don't have to invoke the endpoint
every time.
There are a lot of things we will see later, but for now, just understand that order service doesn't
hard code it.
It will fetch the instances of the details product service details from the Eureka server, Eureka server.
Return all the instances detail of a product service order service is the one which choose a particular
instance, or you are saying that it can do load balancing.
Choose a particular instance and invoke an endpoint.
Okay, so now let's set up each application one by one.
So let's set up Eureka Server once.
So I am creating a new application through spring initializer okay.
So you can we have already set up so many applications till now.
You can set up one uh simple application dependency.
I have only put web for now.
So very very simple application I have created now to make it a Eureka server.
What we have to do.
First I am adding a dependency.
So this is the first step.
Like I am adding a spring cloud starter.
Netflix Eureka server dependency.
As Eureka is developed by Netflix, which has been integrated in Spring Cloud.
So this is the dependency we have to add.
And for the version which version I am using the dependency management we have already seen like in
previously in uh client.
Also, I have also mentioned that uh, for the spring cloud it's always better that use dependency management
uh to resolve the version of it.
Don't put direct version here because in spring cloud, if if in future you have to add more dependency
of spring cloud then those different like let's say thing I am using also Finn.
So thing is like different cloud spring cloud different library.
This is Eureka server is different library.
So there should be.
Compatible to each other.
So you the version which you are picking should be compatible to each other.
So I don't want to handle this version compatibility I don't want to manually handle that.
So that's why dependency management helps me in that.
Or you can say that is the task for us.
So we just tell what dependency we want its version.
This will take care of it okay.
So we have added a Eureka server dependency in our Pom.xml.
So that's the first thing.
Second thing what we have done is we have enabled the Eureka server.
So we have put the annotation at the rate enable Eureka server.
So it tells Springboot to create necessary beans, which is required for Eureka server like Eureka Controller,
dashboard, etc..
Okay, so till you don't add this annotation, the beans will not be created which is required for Eureka
server.
So we have to tell the Spring boot that it's Eureka server application.
Treat it as Eureka server.
Okay.
The third is application dot properties.
So the application name I have given the port on which it's going to run, I have given.
Now these two are important.
So I told you what does the client do.
Two things.
The I have a client.
This is a server.
Client does two things.
One is register itself and another is discover the instance like hey, give me the instance, discover,
fetch other instances.
So if you are a server I don't want to do both this thing.
So that's why register with Eureka false fetch registry false.
By default these two are true.
So I told that, hey, I don't have to.
Since this is a server, I don't have to register it.
And since this is a server, I don't have to fetch the registry.
Also, I don't have to discover also.
Okay, so I have both made the false.
So this three things I have done.
And what's the port number I have configured 8761.
So if I put started the application and put localhost 8761 this is the dashboard you're gonna see.
So this dashboard would be up.
So currently no application is registered no instances registered.
So now let's set up a Eureka client application now.
So Eureka Server is clear right.
How we can enable it.
Eureka server Eureka client application.
So now let's say that order service I have we have different microservices like order service product
service.
And let's say that first they have to register themselves to the Eureka server how they can register
it.
Okay, so now let's say that product service, the first thing first we have to add a dependency.
So here we are adding a dependency of a client Eureka client spring cloud Netflix Eureka client.
In the server we have added a dependency of the server one Eureka server.
And here we are adding a dependency of Eureka client and similarly its version.
I am living to this dependency management.
Okay.
Second thing application dot properties.
So I have set a port number application name that it's a product service which I want to show into the
dashboard.
Also right now this three part very important first thing is client register with Eureka.
Do you want to register this application with Eureka?
True.
You don't even have to add it by default.
These are true, but just for showing purpose that these two things are important for the client.
If you don't write this to then also it will work because by default these two are true only.
Do you want to fetch the registry?
True.
So let's say that in your case, if your scenario is that only you want to register, you don't want
to fetch.
You can make it false one also, or you only want to fetch.
You don't want to register yourself.
Then you can make this false.
Okay so you can play with this values but understand what's the purpose of this two configs and this
one.
This one is also important that Eureka client service URL default zone.
So here we have to provide the URL where this client will talk with this.
Eureka.
Okay.
So currently this Eureka server is running on port number 8761 on the localhost okay.
And that Eureka.
This is the default endpoint.
Okay.
So this is we have to put into this config Eureka client service URL dot default zone.
This is very important because without this your client won't be able to talk with the Eureka server.
So this is your server URL.
Okay so I started the product service.
Now see the dashboard.
Once you started the product service okay you will see the same dashboard.
You will see product service.
So this is the service name we have given right in small.
So here it shows capital letter product hyphen service and the address complete address like what is
the instance ID port number URL status up or not okay.
So our client is now registered with the product.
Similarly for order service.
Also we can do the same thing in the order service.
Also you have to put the dependency in form application dot properties give it a order hyphen service.
You need to tell the server Eureka server URL and you can make it true if you want both the capability
register it and the fetching both it.
And once you refresh it, once you start the product order service will also come.
Okay, so now our server is set up and client is also set up means client application also registered
themselves.
Now let's see how order service can invoke product service.
Now order service has to invoke the product service like now we can do.
So.
This is the previous without service discovery.
Earlier let's say we were using Rest template.
So we were creating a Rest template object.
After that we were invoking get for object.
If you remember if you can recall.
And then we'll give the URL we hardcoded URL.
This is the hard coded URL of the product or service.
Okay.
Specifically, we were mentioning the URL.
Okay.
Now with service discovery, what we have to do is if you are using a Rest template then there is something
called Discovery client.
It is present into Spring framework cloud client.
Discovery dot discovery client.
Okay.
So this discovery client we have to first fetch.
Fetch an instance discovery.
You have to discovery the instances.
So get an instance of this service product hyphen service.
So remember the name should be given properly.
Which other application has set up in their applicationname.
Because the same name goes here into the Eureka server also.
Okay.
So you are using a discovery client object to fetch the instances of a particular service.
Now what would happen is you will get a list of instances.
You get a list of instances.
And this service instance contains a lot of information like URL, port number, the URI, uh, name,
a lot more information.
So but consider this that in the rest template.
In the rest template, once we get a list of instances, let's say for product service there could be
ten instances.
There could be 100 instances.
So we have to choose a particular instance.
You have to manually do the load balancing.
So for now I am just doing get zero.
No matter how many instances do me get zero.
This is just an example.
But instead here load balancer logic should be present either round robin choose or whatever the logic.
So load balancing logic we have to add it in the rest template.
Or either you have to integrate with Spring Cloud Load balancer.
You have to integrate with the Spring Cloud load balancer if you don't want to write your own logic.
Otherwise, you have to pick a particular instance.
And once you get the instance, use that URI here.
So now here, if you see that I have not hard coded it.
Okay.
So I'm getting a list of instances.
I am picking one of the instance based on my logic, load balancing, logic, and whatever the instance
I picked I am using that and invoking the API.
Okay, so this is just a relative path.
The host and port number is coming from this.
So with rest template load balancing logic need to be handled.
But let's say if you are using fake client or Rest, client also does mostly the same behavior with
Franklin.
Load balancing is handled automatically by the framework itself.
Now when you get a multiple instance and framework has to choose one.
So load balancing is handled automatically.
So we have to add a load balancing dependency.
Also if you are using frame client or Rest client because now framework has to pick a particular instance.
Okay.
So now framework is doing certain tasks for us.
And if framework has to choose it chooses via load balancing okay.
So whenever we use Franklin Plus service discovery then we have to add a load balancer dependency.
Also because it is load balancing is handled automatically by the framework.
So earlier without service discovery what we were doing is at the rate Franklin I think you can recall
this.
We have discussed in depth and we provide the URL like the host and port number which we were putting
into application dot properties.
Right.
So we are providing some URL.
We are in our application in Application.properties or here itself.
Now, with service discovery, we don't need this only name with the name itself.
Whatever the name we have provided for the application.
Right.
Which we want to talk.
Let's say product hyphen service.
Then with this name itself, the framework will internally use discovery client, fetch the instance,
use the load balancer, pick a particular instance and invoke it all by the framework.
Now we don't have to hard code the URL all, we just have to give the name which is used in the service
discovery.
Okay.
So this looks pretty simple, right?
Uh, setting up a service discovery.
But in interview there are certain questions.
Comes it.
So as a curious engineer, the few things which comes to your mind is that how does Eureka Server know
whether a client is up or down?
Where and how the data is stored in the Eureka server.
What if Eureka Server itself goes down?
Is it a single point of failure or not?
Now, earlier Order Service is directly calling product service.
Now it is making like order service is calling Eureka server.
And then after that Eureka server is giving the list.
And then order service is making a call to product service.
So it's like a first hop.
Second hop.
So now does it cause a latency issue.
Okay.
So we will see all this answer like which is very important from the interview perspective and also
our understanding also.
So first thing is how does Eureka server knows whether a client is up or not.
So Eureka server know by two way.
First is client de registration request.
Another is through client heartbeat.
Let's say that first when client application is gracefully shut down, then Eureka client sends a De-registration
request to Eureka Server.
It marked the client status as down.
Okay, so now let's say that currently product service is up.
Okay, now I shut down this product service application from the ID.
I shut down this application.
So if you see the logs you will see that hey it will call Unregistering application with Eureka with
status down it is calling the Eureka server with status down.
And after that and if you check the server Eureka server logs it, received it registered instance this
with status down and then it updated the status with down for this one.
Okay, so one is through.
If gracefully things happening, then de-registration call happen from client to server.
And with that Eureka server know that client is down.
But now let's say assume that your client got shut down, but without any without sending any de-registration
request, maybe because of network issue or something, then how it will know.
It will know through heartbeat.
Every client periodically sends heartbeat to the Eureka server.
Okay, so Eureka server, wait for the heartbeat from the client for a particular interval.
We can we can configure this interval.
I will show you okay.
So Eureka server wait for the heartbeat from client for a particular interval.
If no heartbeat received within that time interval it remove the client instance itself.
It consider it dead.
So consider this client application dot properties okay.
Let's say product service.
So this things we have set the port number application name, the Eureka server URL and registry discovery.
We have already set this.
Now concentrate on this two new config.
The first is eureka dot instance dot lease renewable interval.
So lease renewable interval in second means that after this much seconds client will set the new heartbeat
to the server.
So I said 60 means after 60s the Eureka client will send the heartbeat to the server.
If you don't set it by default is 32nd, then another config is Eureka dot instance dot lease expiration
duration in second lease expiration.
This is like telling server to wait only this much time for the heartbeat.
After that you can remove it from the list.
Default is 92nd.
So this means that client is telling to the server that hey, this is the maximum time you can wait
for my heartbeat.
If you don't get the heartbeat within this time, you can consider me as like unavailable.
So in this example, generally this time is greater than this time.
But for this example only I have taken it very less.
So after 60s the client will send the heartbeat to the server.
But server will wait only for five seconds.
Okay.
So it will mark it as dead.
We will see that.
And in the Eureka server application dot properties, what we have to do is we have seen this config
already.
Now this two config we have to set first is unable Eureka server unable self preservation false.
This by default this is true.
We have to make it false because we need to allow server to remove the instance if heartbeat is not
received.
So if it is generally true right.
So generally even though the heartbeat is not received the server do not remove it.
Okay.
so if you make it false, then means we are allowing the server.
Hey, if a heartbeat is missed, feel free to remove it.
Okay.
And the second is that eviction interval timer.
So sometimes what happens is like even the even the client is down.
Even the client is down.
But the server has to run like server check for the dead instances.
Okay.
Whatever the instances are configured, it has to look a is this dead or not?
If it is dead, remove it.
Remove it from the list.
So we have to check the eviction interval means how often server check for dead instances.
Even the client is dead.
It's okay.
Okay.
So it.
And we have also told that they remove it but it it has to run through interval right?
It can't.
Just like every time it keep on running or that I have to remove it.
So we have I have set a six second after six second.
Just look if you see any dead instance remove it.
If you see any instance for which heartbeat is missing, remove it from the list.
So this is the client configuration.
This is the server configuration.
Now here if you see earlier product service is up okay.
And what is the configuration I have set heartbeat.
Uh which is I think a lease renewable time I set is uh 60s.
And lease expiry I think lease expiry.
Right.
Lease expiration duration I have set is five second means after 62nd product service will send the heartbeat.
But server will wait only for five seconds.
So after five seconds, if you see the application is removed from the dashboard from the registry itself.
Okay.
Because of this configuration.
You can test this also, right?
Like here I my application is running.
Okay.
So we can check this like let me stop it.
Uh once.
So Eureka server self preservation is false.
Interval six seconds I have set up.
And in the product service heartbeat will send for 60 and expiration.
Let me allow for five just for testing purpose so that we can check.
So let me start the Eureka server for now and let me start the product service.
And then let's see refresh it.
So currently product service is there up.
Let's wait for five seconds.
One two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
It's gone.
Okay.
So we can you can, uh, do testing, and these things will get clarified.
Okay, so we know the answer for this one, right?
How?
Eureka server.
Know whether a client is up or down.
The second is, how does Eureka server restores the data?
Eureka server only stored data in memory.
There is no, uh, you can say that DB persistence know only in memory.
It creates a map string, comma list, uh, instance info.
Okay, so here, if you see that the key is your app name slash instance ID.
So this is generally your key.
What is the app name and what is the particular instance ID, IP, port number and the particular service?
Okay, this totally generates a unique instance unique instance because IP is different port number,
IP port number, and the product app name.
This makes a unique instance.
So this is your key.
And in the value you have the value of like app name IP address, host name port, whether this is up
or down when it was last renewed, lease duration, etc..
Okay, so this is how Eureka server stores the data.
But there is remember there is no DB persistence.
It's all in memory.
Now what if Eureka server goes down itself?
Is it a single point of failure?
So now let's say we know that Eureka server is storing the data in memory.
So I have this map.
I have this map in memory.
Right.
Eureka server.
Now if this server goes down, this all this info goes away with it.
Now if Order service has to call the product service it will call this server.
Will it be available?
No.
It's gone.
It's down.
So is it.
Eureka server is bringing a single point of failure in our application.
No.
So if you are using a single Eureka server, then yes.
But generally three nodes are used.
Okay.
It's used in a Eureka server cluster.
We create Eureka server cluster.
So three servers are running into different machine or container with different IP and port number okay.
So on three different machine three Eureka servers are running Okay.
And here each server is a client tool.
This is very important.
So now let's say that you have a cluster of three Eureka server.
Server one.
Server two.
Server three.
Eureka.
Server 123.
Now this server has to register itself to both this server.
First it has to registered.
Right.
Second, it also has to take whatever the data present into S2.
So it has to discover also okay.
So means this server is also now becomes a client.
So the same thing each server is a client two as they have to register themselves, fetch the registry,
replicate the changes.
So now let's say that your three servers which are running into three different machines.
So configuration for them would be like let's say for server one would be Application name, port number,
your hostname instance like on which port number it is running or IP address.
Okay, now here if you see even for the server I am registering Eureka dot client dot registered with
Eureka.
True.
Yes, I want to register it also.
I am making it true.
Eureka dot client dot fetch registry.
True.
Yes.
I want to fetch the details also.
So even though it is a server, I am treating it as a client also.
Okay.
So it's a client of whom?
So for its server would be these two.
Server Eureka server which is running on 8762.
This one second Eureka Eureka two server.
And the Eureka server which is running on 8763.
This one.
So for this.
So this is a client for this two.
So it registered itself with this two servers.
Similarly, server two is also a client of server two.
Now is a client of this and this.
Okay.
Similarly, server three is a client of one and two server.
Okay.
And in the client application dot properties earlier we were putting the default zone right.
We can say that hey we can put all three servers here.
So 123 okay.
That's all we have to do.
So here internally the Eureka server internally whenever any.
Let's say this server one.
Server two, server three okay.
They have their maps all sync up.
Any new entry happen here.
Let's say instance one certain detail.
It will update the detail here.
So it's eventual consistency.
It's not like always you will get like.
So let's say that the data present into server one instance detail.
So eventually it will also be present into S2.
And eventually it will also be present into S3.
Okay.
But there is no guarantee that your client now your client can request to anybody.
Let's say that if your Eureka Server one is down, it can call Eureka Server two also.
So there is no guarantee that the instance one detail which is present in S1 is properly sink in S2.
Eventually it will, but there is no guarantee that let's say if request goes into S2, you will get
the data.
You might not, but if you retry, you might okay, because they keep on syncing up the data.
But there could be some delay.
And because of that, if your request goes to server one, you might see the data.
If it goes to server two, you might not.
So service discovery is a provide eventual consistency okay.
So your client is now configured this three service discovery URLs.
So if one server is down it will not impact the client availability now.
So there is no single point of failure.
Can it cause a latency issue.
Like earlier we were making a direct call from order service to product service.
Now first, uh, I have to invoke Eureka Server and then make the actual call.
No, Eureka server does not get called for every request at application startup itself.
The client, let's say order service need to call to product service.
So at application startup itself it fetch the registry.
We have set this right.
Uh, fetch the registry so it will fetch everything from Eureka Server at the time of application startup.
And it will put into its cache locally.
Order service put into it cache locally.
Now all the future call.
It will use this local copy only to find the instance it will not call Eureka server and we can control
this config like after how after how much seconds client will refresh it.
Cache copy.
Because now you have put this data into the cache okay.
So the original data which is present into the server, it might get changed certain instances from
up change to down or it got removed itself totally or new got added.
How this cache copy get updated so we can configure this Eureka dot client dot registry fetch interval
second, whatever the second you will put.
After that much seconds, it will update its cache copy.
Okay.
So this is the client configuration.
And what if the local cache is stale?
Can this lead to calling a dead instance possible.
Right.
Let's say that here instance one was marked as down.
So order service product service.
And let's say this is server.
And here instance one is up.
And during application startup it maintain the copy instance one up.
But later on let's say that it has make it down instance one is down.
But let's say that this time is not yet happen.
It has not refreshed its copy yet.
You have given such a big time interval.
Let's say I have given it as something.
Let's say that, uh, Something thousand.
So I have given very big interval like let's say 10,000, something like.
So it hasn't updated its copy cached copy.
So it might got stale.
So even though this order service see that.
Hey this instance one is up.
It will try to call but actually it's down.
Okay.
So you have to be very careful with this timing.
If you keep it very less if you keep it.
Let's say this is order service.
This is your Eureka server.
If you keep this let's say one second.
So after one second it will always make a call and keep on doing refresh refresh refresh refresh.
Okay.
That is also not good.
If you keep it too large, then you might get stale data here.
And it might possible that you are in your cache.
Copy.
It's showing up, But actually it's down.
And when you try to call it ultimately fail.
So it's a trade off.
So you have to have a proper.
This number should come up with a proper that this cache copy should be updated in how much time.
So that you have always have the latest data.
Also you don't keep on refreshing it as many as possible.
Like we don't want that.
We want as minimum as possible refresh but still the data as fresh.
Okay, so do practice with your hand like uh but this is very very important topic.
It's widely used in the industry.
But I hope if you have any further doubt we can further discuss it in the comment section.
But I hope it clarify lot of your doubts and it will give you a path forward like more you can jump
into this topic like console.
You can further go into that one.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Client Side Load Balancer and its Implementation ---

Guys welcome back to the channel.
And today in microservice topic we are going to cover Load Balancer.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So we all know what load balancer is.
Generally it helps in distributing the traffic to multiple instances of a server.
Right.
Which helps in preventing single server from being overloaded with huge traffic.
This is very, very basic definition of load balancer, which we all know, but things got more interesting
when we go into its type.
So generally it's of two type server side load balancer and client side load balancer.
So in server side load balancer what generally happen is it has centralized load balancer right.
So here if you see this is your client let's say this is our Spring Boot app.
This is our Spring Boot app which we have written.
Now we are calling a dedicated you can say that a server which do the role of load balancing.
So it has a centralized load balancer.
Okay.
So our client do not contain any logic of load balancing.
Okay.
So it calls a dedicated load balancer server which does and forward the request to one of the service
requested service.
But in the client side load balancer what generally happens is load balancing capability present inside
the client.
The caller itself okay.
So here if you see this is what we are doing today and this is what we have done in the service discovery
if you remember.
So this is our spring boot application which we have developed let's say.
So what it does is it first invokes service discovery.
Let's say it says that hey give me all the instances of service a now service discovery.
Return the list of all the possible instances available for the service.
A now this client holds the logic of the load balancing.
Either it could be a library or either it written its own logic, but client has the logic.
Client does the load balancing and pass the request to one of the server.
Okay, so that's the difference between server side load balancing and client side load balancing.
And this is what we are going to cover.
Client side load balancer.
Server side load balancer when we cover API gateway nginx.
Right.
So that time we can cover it okay.
So client side load balancer is something which we are going to see.
So the prerequisite is the service discovery.
Because if you remember in the service discovery when we use fake client right in the client it automatically
it automatically internally uses load balancer in case of service discovery.
Okay.
So we have to know the service discovery before we start with the load balancer.
So that's a prerequisite.
You can check in the playlist.
So let's start with the client side load balancing with Rest template.
Because if we understand the Rest template then for either Rest client, faint client web client whatever
you are going to do, the load balancing logic would be same.
It not going to differ.
So in service discovery topic previous video, we have seen that after we have set the service discovery
the rest template, we fetch the list of instances using discovery client object.
We have already seen that right.
And then client is manually choosing the instances from the list and invoking the endpoint.
See if you can recall from the previous video service discovery one.
So I am showing you an example of rest template, not pink line.
Okay, so in the rest template, if you remember, we were first creating the object of Rest template
inside a configuration which we have auto wired it.
Okay.
Now here if you see we are using an object of discovery client.
With discovery client we are fetching the instances of this service product service from Eureka server.
Hey Eureka server, give me all the instances of this product service.
Once you get it.
And here if you see this is we were choosing like you can say that this is a very bad, uh, load balancing
algorithm.
We were always picking get zero.
But this is just an example that, hey, after you get all the instances, we have to have a load balancing
logic and we have to pick one instance and call it Okay.
Use that host and port number.
Okay.
So if you can recall this one here, we haven't used any load balancing capability.
Now okay.
So here we are fetching it.
We are writing our capability.
And we are then invoking a particular server.
So we can use Spring Cloud Load Balancer which is spring cloud load balancer is your client side load
balancer.
Okay.
So spring cloud load balancer.
There are more client side load balancer like Netflix Reborn which is I think deprecated.
Now it's deprecated.
So spring cloud load balancer is something which is frequently used.
And Istio uh service mesh that is also very frequently used okay.
So we can use any of the client side load balancer which we want.
So now here, if you see if we have to use the Spring Cloud load balancer into the above this Rest template,
what we can do the first thing first we have to add an dependency of the load balancer spring cloud
load balancer dependency.
We have to add in our Pom okay.
Now the second thing is.
We have to annotate where we are creating an object of Rest template.
We have to annotate with at the load balancer.
Why?
Because this annotation tells the framework that hey, intercept the request, intercept the request
and call service discovery.
Get an instance and apply load balancing algorithm.
So there is something called load balancer interceptor load balancer interceptor.
So this class will get invoked.
Okay.
So this is the purpose of this annotation.
It tells the framework that add this interceptor.
Okay.
We will see that.
So this is one thing is we have to annotate our Rest template with this annotation.
Another difference you will see that earlier we were using discovery Discovery client.
Right now you don't need discovery client itself because this interceptor internally will call service
discovery fetch and instances do load balancing and call one server.
Okay.
So you don't manually need to do that.
All you have to do that is just provide the name of the service which you have to invoke.
Okay.
So I have written into the Application.properties the HTTP product hyphen service.
Now I am not using, let's say one 92.80 .60.3.
Hey, call 8082.
I am not using the hard coded host and port number.
Right.
I have just invoked that hey product hyphen service.
This is the name of the service.
I have given into the application like here for this order application I have given the name order.
I order hyphen service.
Right.
Similarly for the product service I have given that name.
So I'm using that name which service you are going to invoke.
Okay so the same here.
This is the URL.
Okay.
So this HTTP colon product hyphen service.
And this is the URI relative path which we have to invoke.
Now this will get resolved by our load balancer.
Okay.
So now here if you see lot of things become simpler for us okay.
We just have added the dependency and just tell through this annotation that Intercept.
Intercept the request and use load balancer interceptor.
Now here we don't have to do the calling of the service directory service discovery.
We don't have to put an algorithm for choosing one of the particular service.
All internally got handled.
But the question should comes to you now.
How what algorithm how we can change it that we are gonna see it.
Okay.
So if you face any doubt with the rest template like hey, you are not able to understand this.
So I would say that like please go through this rest template first.
Right.
And I even I have shown the in-depth of this Rest template framework, how the control flows whenever
we do this one right.
Get for object in the rest template.
What exactly happened?
I have already explained in depth.
So the thing is, once you put this at the rate load balance annotation.
So in this framework, I am just assuming that you have already seen the Rest template video and you
know this how internally it works.
So in the Rest template flow, when when we used to call the execute method, that's where the interception
works.
And that's where first this will get invoked.
Load balancer interceptor dot Java.
At this point of time.
Okay.
So before execution of this first this interceptor.
Now get invoked.
Now here if you see if you debug this interceptor code, you will see this piece of code where it try
to dose this two thing.
So first it does load balancer client factory get instance for this service ID.
What it does it will pick the load balancing algorithm for you.
It will pick the load balancing algorithm like a round robin Urban or random whatever.
So it will pick one load balancing algorithm for you first.
Okay.
After that it calls load balancer dot choose request.
So internally it calls service discovery.
Pick one instance based on the above load balancing algorithm.
So internally it calls service discovery.
Get a list of instance.
And whatever the load balancer algorithm you have got using that it will pick one instance of it.
Okay.
So all this code logic is present inside this interceptor.
Okay.
So there are different types of algorithms present into load balancing like I have already covered into
this playlist.
If you go into the playlist you will see I think around 18th video.
Like we have discussed a lot of algorithm, round robin, least connection, IP hash, At least response
time.
Random.
So I'm not going to cover what exactly the algorithm does that is already present into the playlist.
But today our main purpose is to understand that how framework does it.
Okay, so if you see this line again where it picks the load balancing algorithm, this is very, very
important.
We have to understand it better because remember when you are about to code it, I am pretty much sure
you will face lot of challenge because of this service ID because of the service ID so understand this
service ID concept properly.
This gonna help you when you write it right.
This is I'm from based on my experience.
I'm telling you lot of engineers get stuck this how it's working.
Okay.
So we will look at this a little bit better where this line Choosing the load balancer for us, it will
choosing the load balancer right for us.
So one thing question comes to our mind is what is the service ID getting passed.
Okay.
And what is its purpose.
Why and what its purpose.
So one thing is this service ID is nothing but a client ID, or you can say that client name.
So here in this case like a product hyphen service is also known as service ID let's say order hyphen
service.
This is my application name right at you can say that Eureka server.
We have used this application names.
So this are known as service ID okay.
So each why we are passing this client name or service ID to this load balancer.
Remember that each load balancer algorithm is attached to a service ID.
So now let's say that this is your application.
Just understand that this is your application.
Now you have a dependency on product.
You have a dependency on sales.
You have a dependency on some x, y, z application.
Okay.
So I have given its name product hyphen service.
I have given it a name sales hyphen service.
Similarly x y z hyphen service some something something.
So these are the application name.
Remember that load balancing algorithm is for attached to a specific service.
So for this service I am using round robin.
For this service I am attaching it with random.
For this service I am attaching it with let's say weighted algorithm.
So whatever the algorithm of a load balancer is attached to a particular service.
Always.
Okay.
So this gonna help us.
Very.
This is the main concept actually.
We will see that when we will override it.
Right.
This is where the challenge comes that hey how why this product service is important.
It is important because whatever the algorithm we are picking load balancing algorithm, it's attached
to one of the service.
It's not like I choose a round robin.
Now it's round robin is for product service also sales service also this also no it's always get attached
to one of the service okay so we will see that more.
But at this point of time only this thing keep in at the back of your mind that yes, whatever the load
balancing algorithm we are picking, it is attached to one of the service.
Okay.
So each load balancing algorithm is attached to a service ID.
Service ID is nothing but a client name like Product Service.
By default, Spring Cloud Load Balancer picks round robin load balancer.
So this is the default load balancer algorithm.
We can change it for a specific service for all the service.
Also we will see that how.
But this is by default for all the service okay.
No matter how many service you add for all the service round robin get attached round robin for product
service, round robin for sales service, round robin for XYZ service okay, so for each service round
robin load balancer is the default algorithm is chosen.
So if we are not going with default algorithm, if you don't want to go with round robin Then we need
to define for which client or service ID which algorithm we need.
Again, it's just a different way of saying that each algorithm load balancing algorithm is attached
to a particular service ID.
So we have to tell okay you don't want to go with round robin.
What algorithm you want to choose.
But for which service?
We have to tell the both.
Spring Cloud Load balancer supports only two algorithm round robin and random.
Okay so here this is the class hierarchy.
If you see that this is one of the load balancer round robin load balancer.
And this is the another random load balancer.
We can if you need more or different you can.
Create a child class.
You write a custom load balancer and use it.
We will see that how we can do that.
Okay so but by default only two algorithms are present into the spring cloud load balancer round robin
and random.
If you want different algorithms like weighted least connection, then we need to write either custom
or we need to use different, uh, library, maybe Istio with sidecar.
It has wide variety of algorithms present inside its sidecar.
Okay.
So now your requirement is that, hey, we want to use random load balancer.
I don't want to use round robin.
We want to use random.
How we can override it.
So very very simple.
Okay.
This is same like, uh, the configuration I am just creating an object of Rest template.
And while creating a Rest template object I have annotated with at the load balance so that my load
balancer, uh, interceptor can catch it.
And here.
Exactly same like, uh, no difference Friends while invoking it in the application.properties no difference.
I have provided the base URL which is this.
Here I am using the service name.
Now the difference which comes in that first in your application, let's say this is my order application.
In the order service application we have to put load balancer client annotation okay.
In this load balancer client annotation we tell that hey for this service product hyphen service, this
is the configuration which we have to use okay.
So this is very very specific for the load balancer okay.
So now here if you see I have provided a load balancer product client config load balancer product line.
This is very very specific.
Just see it right again load balancer client.
This client is for name is product service.
So I am writing this config very very specific for this product service.
Very very specific for this product service.
Okay.
So I have written this configuration.
And now here if you see I am creating reactor load balancer.
So I am creating from this hierarchy.
You know that uh all this round robin random these are the hierarchy.
So it returns the object of this one reactor load balancer okay.
So I am returning now random load balancer I am returning now random load balancer.
But slowly understand it.
What exactly happened.
So first by first let's start it from here.
This config this load balancer product line config is different from this normal config class.
Here I have created this configuration class, right?
You already understand that when you start an application, when you start an application, what would
happen is this bean will get created at the time of startup, correct?
This is different.
This configuration is lazy.
This configuration is different.
Load balancer configuration is different.
The configuration again I'm saying the configuration which is associated with load balancer client is
different from the normal config class because normal config class like above where we are creating
an object of rest template, right?
Like this.
This get invokes at application startup only all the beans will get created.
But this load balancer client config right?
This load balancer config whatever you will define the config here for the load balancer invokes at
runtime two.
So whenever you are going to invoke this right http colon product hyphen service some relative path.
Whenever you are trying to invoke this endpoint product hyphen service.
At that point of time, this configuration will invoke also.
Okay, at that point of time it will decide what is the load balancing algorithm you are picking.
Why?
I will tell you the reason for it also when we will go for the global.
Okay, but remember this.
This is very important.
This config differs from the normal config because this configuration load balancer configuration invokes
at runtime two okay.
So that is first part.
The second part is now here.
If you see when I am creating a random load balancer, this random load balancer constructor takes two
parameter one is service instance list supplier, another is service ID.
Okay.
So now here this is the.
This will return me an object of service instance list supplier.
This one.
So what is the use of this service instance list supplier.
This object service instance list supplier is actually the one which helps to invoke the service discovery.
So using this object using this supplier object service instance list supplier using this object we
invoke the service discovery okay.
And for what what name what server we have to ask for instance is this one product hyphen service.
So that's what it gives us.
A lazy object means it's not called now okay.
Whenever we call it, whenever we required it, then only it's object will provide it to us.
So it give us an object lazily.
That's what generally it does.
So the first thing it does is it provides an object of the service instance list supplier.
Using this we will invoke service discovery for which instance?
This instance product service.
Now the second is this product service.
Why we need this.
I told you each load balancing algorithm here I am picking random load balancer is associated with a
particular service ID or client name.
So that's where.
So this random load balancer is now associated with this service ID.
Only when you are invoking this product service then only random load balancer is used.
Otherwise it is not used.
Okay.
So again very simple.
Uh we have to first annotate it with in your application load balancer client annotation.
We will provide a name for which service which configuration has to look for.
So product hyphen service go for this configuration.
Okay then here we have defined that which load balancing algorithm has to be used.
Okay.
That's all.
Okay.
So this is only will not needed.
But now the question comes is what if for product service I want algorithm A for order hyphen service
I want something x y z.
I'll go and for all I want algorithm B okay.
What I'm trying to say is that what if you have different different requirement.
Let's say for service one I want algo a for service two I want algo B.
But for all of the service.
Service three.
Service four service five I want some default algo.
Default load balancing algo.
Same for all.
How we can do that?
Again.
Very simple.
The same thing.
Now we have one more annotation called load balancer clients.
Not earlier.
It was client.
Client.
Now we have is clients.
So the client here has two parts.
One is default configuration okay.
And another is inside a value.
We can provide comma separated different load balancer client.
So now let's say that one I have provided similarly at the load balancer client for product service.
This is the configuration.
Similarly comma separated you can put load balancer client name order hyphen service.
What is the configuration you want to put.
Give it.
Okay.
So different different configuration we can give for different different service if required.
Different algorithm.
Because here I can use random algorithm for order service I can in this configuration I can use some
different algorithm for rest of the service.
I want default right.
So what is the default configuration I want to use.
Let's say this is the load balancer global conflict class okay.
So this is the first place where we have to define that for each service one.
What is the algo algo generally defined in a configuration class.
So for service one what is the configuration class for service two what is the configuration class and
default.
What are the configuration okay.
So this is the first thing.
So now here if you see that I will tell you the first the global config.
This default one right.
Default one I will tell you.
So now here if you see this is first part.
And in this global configuration what we want to do is you recall one part one is each for each product
or each service ID like a product service order service.
No matter how many service you have in your application, which you are dependent on or sales service
like for each one.
For each one, load balancer algorithm would be mapped.
What algorithm have to be created?
Okay.
So now here if you see that now let's say that for product service I have already defined that go for
this load balancer product line.
So this is the first first child client config will load it then the default one.
So it has an order.
So first all the child's.
If there are more child load balancer client that been will get created.
After that the default one will get created.
Okay.
So now let's say that for product service it goes to this particular load balancer product line config.
Okay there it's we have already seen that how we can attach a particular algorithm to a product service.
But now let's say for these two I want common algorithm like a default.
Or even if I have more x, y, z service for all these three my service I need one common algorithm,
one common algorithm for this one.
So while defining while defining a new round robin load balancer, I told you that it's attached with
a particular service ID.
Now this is dynamic right?
We have order service.
We have sales service.
We have XYZ service.
We can't hard code it at this place.
We can't hard code it, right?
It is dynamic at runtime.
That is one of the reason.
If you remember, I told you all the load balancer configuration loads at runtime, like which service
you are invoking.
Okay, now let's say that you are invoking order service at runtime.
So at runtime from the environment it will get a property name.
So this is will give you the service ID dynamically.
And now like similarly I can create an object of a round robin load balancer.
Like whatever the algorithm you want to pick I can create a round robin load balancer algorithm and
I can put a service ID.
I don't have to hard code it now.
Okay.
So I put a service ID and this is the same here.
Service ID are used which is used for service discovery that hey use this.
Call the service discovery for this service ID.
Okay, now when you are trying to invoke sales service with this dynamic runtime, it will get a context.
Get this config.
Invoke this.
Now this service id would be sales hyphen service.
Now this algorithm now also attached with this service ID also.
So for each service id it will have this bean.
Okay.
So this is how global configuration we can write.
Okay.
Now you can ask that hey why you have put at the rate conditional on missing bean.
Remember that.
Here if you see at top.
We have one global config.
We have a global global config in which we are dynamically finding out a service id.
Okay.
And then we are creating a round.
Robin load balancer algo and attach that service ID with that.
And we have one product service also in that configuration we we hard coded IT service ID because it's
a specific for product service.
But there we are creating a random load balancer algo.
So we have to we have to make sure that duplicate product service is not created.
So at runtime now let's say you are trying to invoke HTTP colon product hyphen service okay.
At this point of time now we have two configuration, two load balancer configuration, one is global
and one is specific for product.
Okay.
So I told you that the first priority is for the internal one.
The child one before it goes to the global.
So first it will get invoked.
This configuration will get invoked.
And when this configuration will get invoked it will create a load balancer algorithm and tied with
the product hyphen service.
Now after that internal according to the ordering.
Now global will get invoked.
Now dynamically.
If you see that dynamically it will find out it's a product hyphen service.
And it will try to create a round robin algo.
So for one service two algo will get attached and you will get an exception runtime exception.
So to avoid that runtime exception we have to add that.
And we have to tell that hey, if already a load balancer algorithm is chosen for a particular product
service ID, don't go inside it.
That's all.
Okay.
This is required in the global because we have a specific configuration for the particular service.
And we don't want that in the global.
Also its load balancer get created or get mapped.
So we have to tell okay.
Only in case of missing been go inside it.
If been is already present for that product service don't go.
Don't go inside it okay.
So product service already got run and we have already seen that for product service we are using random
load balancer and we have hard coded it.
We know that it is specific for product.
But in the global we can't hard code it right.
So that's why we are using this environment.
And you already know that why it's load balancer configs are run at runtime maybe at runtime.
This is not much helpful because during application startup we know product service is present.
This is the service.
But for global this is important because we can't hard code it.
So at runtime we need to know which service we are trying to invoke.
And for that service it creates a.
Load balancer algorithm.
Okay.
So now question next come is what if you want to write your own custom load balancer.
You don't want to use round robin.
You don't want to use random.
You want to write your own custom logic.
So if you understand this hierarchy like these are interfaces reactive load balancer, reactor load
balancer, reactor service load balancer.
And these are the concrete classes round robin and random.
So we have to create a child custom load balancer just inside this okay.
And we have to provide an implementation of this choose method.
So that's what I did.
So here I provide my custom load balancer.
Created a child of reactor service instance load balancer.
This one child of this.
Okay.
And here I have a constructor.
The constructor take two part like we have seen like in here.
If you see like new round robin load balancer it does constructor take two parts.
One is your service instance list supplier object and another is service ID the same thing, the constructor
which requires service instance supplier and the service id.
And we have to provide an implementation of the choose.
So this is where what it does.
So this is the first using this object service instance supplier I am doing get if available internally
it will call service discovery.
Once you get the instances for each instance okay.
Like uh you can do an load balancing algorithm if instances are not null.
So now here instances are present.
We have to pick one of the instance so we can write custom algorithm here.
So currently I'm picking only first instance get zero.
But you can write your custom algorithm.
Okay so this is the choose method which does this thing okay.
So round robin you can debug the choose round robin.
Go to the round robin load balancer class.
Check its choose so it first does the same thing.
Get if available which calls the service discovery.
You get the instances.
And for those instances you are doing a round robin algorithm performing in random.
It just called random method.
Now if you write a custom logic after you get the instances, if you got zero instances, you return
empty response or throw exception.
If you got instances, pick one instance based on your algorithm.
Now, once you have written this.
Now let's say that for product service I want to use this algorithm.
How to do that.
We know right in the first in this application startup we have put load balancer client give name equals
to product hyphen service and whatever the configuration is this okay.
In our application order service application and inside the config load balancer product config, we
can now tell that hey this is the load balancer.
Use this.
The first one is we have to runtime during runtime right.
So we have to provide an object here and the service.
So you got it right.
So this is how internally the load balancing happens.
You can write your custom load balancer you want or by default is round robin.
You can change it to Two random to a particular service or to all the service.
The major, major, major problems or difficulty comes into the global only global and per config.
We only have to understand the importance of service ID because these conflicts runs at runtime when
you actually from your service, when you are actually invoking product, service or sales service at
that time, the particular service config get invoked.
Okay.
So that is important.
And you can change the algorithm which you want.
I have already told you, you can uh, know that if global and specific conflicts are present, you
make you have to make sure that, uh, duplicate uh, for one product service or one service two algorithm
is not, uh, created.
So we have to also handle that.
So once you understand this Rest template, you can even the client Rest client.
Is using the same load balancing interceptor only.
No change at all.
So if you recall from the Service discovery video, right.
If you recall for the client service discovery, I told you that we have to add a load balancer also
because internally Fink Framework does the same thing.
Okay.
Because it once you get a multiple instances, it has to pick one instance.
Right.
So it uses a load balancer okay.
So for Fink client we don't have to do anything.
Whatever the service discovery we have to do.
It's the same thing right.
Now.
See this one like I I'm hoping that you have seen the service discovery video.
And you can correlate this, like, without service discovery.
In the feign client, we have to provide the URL.
But with service discovery we have to only give the name hey, I want only product hyphen service.
That's all.
Okay.
And we just invoke it.
Now let's say that if you want to change the algorithm you don't want Franklin to use by default.
You know that internally, if it's using a load balancer it might be using round robin.
You want that hey I don't want round robin.
I want some different algorithm.
How can you even if you are using feign client can you change it now easily same in the application.
If it is only one client then you can use load balancer.
Client provide a name service this for this service this configuration have to be used.
I have written this configuration which will also get invoked at runtime when I'm going to invoke this
service get product by ID.
So here I just change the load balancing algorithm.
New load balance.
Okay.
And attach it with this service ID.
Okay.
Now if you go inside this load balancer choose method.
This choose method for that one that internally it will do what you did first call service discovery.
And then it will randomly pick one of the instance the same thing.
Okay, so even though everything is abstracted from us in case of pain and even in case of rest template,
we only have to use this annotation at the load balance and everything is got abstracted under the load
balancer interceptor.
It's still better.
It's better to understand this little framework so that in any scenario, if an interviewer or your
in company use case come that you have to write your own load balancing logic, or for one of the service,
you have to change the load balancing capability.
How you can do that.
Okay.
So play with this.
Okay.
Play with this config.
Put a debugger point here that uh System.out.println.
Put something that I am inside this.
Run it during application startup.
So during application startup you will see and at the time of actual invoking the service that time
also you will see that it will get invoked okay.
And I already told you again it's a runtime.
Uh, functionality is very important for the global part because in global this service ID has to be
run dynamically because during application startup this would be null because we haven't invoked anything.
So this round robin load balancer algorithm would get tied up to service ID.
Okay.
So at runtime when you are calling product service again this got called.
Okay.
And that time this service ID is got set.
And then this round robin is also get mapped to product service.
Okay.
And once it is mapped now no matter you call 100 time product service it will not call again.
Only one time till it's been has to be created.
Load balancer been okay.
So hope this, uh, give you a little insight on how Spring Framework handles the load balancing capability.
And I hope this is something you will find useful.
If you find it helpful, please, uh, do comment out or if there is doubt, please, uh, put into
the comment section we can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Rate Limiter ---

Other side.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today in microservices topic we are going to do how to build a fault tolerant microservice right.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So when anybody says that what is fault tolerant microservice, we mean to say that a service which
continues to work even when downstream system fails.
Okay.
So instead of crashing or cascading failure, it should handle the failure gracefully.
So what?
In short, you have a system build up with multiple microservices, even if some of the microservices
are down and your microservices are depend on them, you should not crash.
You should handle the failure gracefully.
Okay, then we can say that it's a fault tolerant microservice.
Okay.
Why it is required.
You will get more clarity with this, uh, example like why it is required.
So see, as in microservices, different services communicate over the network.
We all know this.
And it's possible that one service unavailability could bring down the whole system.
See this example.
Consider that this system is not fault tolerant.
How a one service can bring down the whole system.
In a normal scenario, let's say there could be multiple microservices, which I'm calling as a client,
right?
So let's say some other client or microservices is calling order component order is calling product
products.
Give the response and order in return gives the response to the client.
This is a normal flow.
Now let's say a buggy code has been introduced in the product and the product service becomes too slow.
This product becomes too slow.
Each API is now taking let's say 60s, right?
60s is too much in distributed system, right?
Say product service become too slow and taking 60s to respond.
If proper fault tolerant is not applied, then a call from order service will hang for 60s.
Now the order service which is calling the product service right need has to wait for 60s.
What if there is a sudden burst of requests coming from client?
Then all the requests will wait for 60s, right?
Just see this example.
Now a sudden burst coming from a microservice to a order component order in return.
Calling the product and product is currently going too slow.
So all the threads are now waiting.
Okay, all the threads are now waiting.
Now what eventually will happen is service will run out of thread and start rejecting the request order.
You know that there is a concept of thread pool.
We have already covered that in depth.
So ultimately when all the threads are waiting, the thread will ultimately will get finished, all
threads will get finished, and there you will reach a point when you will start declining the request.
And this becomes a cascade failure to all your client and microservices also.
And also one more thing is even the product component will not get a normal situation because the.
You can say that the situation of a product service will keep on deteriorating because more and more
load is coming to the product.
So even though the issue is at product, the failure got cascaded to order and may be because of order
has stopped.
Even order can get slow, order component can get slow or if it's thread is all done, it will start
rejecting the request.
This failure can cascade to other components also.
So that is known as cascading failure.
And now you can see that how a one service can bring down the whole component whole system.
So that's why we need fault tolerant.
That's why we need to build a fault tolerant microservice.
So if you are building a order, it need to be fault tolerant that even if product goes down or product
goes slow, I should not like its failure, should not get cascaded to me and I should not get crashed
to.
Okay, so here comes our resilience for framework.
So resilience for J is a combination of mechanism like rate limiter, bulkhead time limiter, circuit
breaker and retry.
So these five are the combinations.
Or you can say that the mechanism which resilience for J provides which helps to develop a microservice
as fault tolerant.
And one more thing.
I would say that we will go one by one in a recommended logical ordering.
So you might say what is the ordering issue like.
We can we can apply anything in in whichever order.
But see this is the logical order rate limiter first, then bulkhead, then time limiter, then circuit
breaker and then retry.
Right.
Why?
Because there is a reason.
Like let's say that if you are applying right, uh, for example rate limiter should always be applied
before retry.
Now let's say you are applying first retry and then rate limiter.
This mechanism you are applying in your system like this.
So does that make sense to you.
Just think what if rate limiter is that it.
Whenever an access traffic comes right it blocks some of the traffic.
Now, if you do the retry mechanism first means you are unnecessarily wasting your computation in retrying
on those traffic that ultimately will get blocked by the rate limiter.
Okay, so there is no point of retrying those traffic which ultimately get blocked.
So that's where rate limiter should be first and retry should be second in this sense.
So that's why if when you are applying all the five mechanism in your system, logical ordering should
be present.
That's what there is no hard and fast rule.
But this is you can say that are de facto, which generally should be followed like this should be the
order.
Okay.
So let's start with our first mechanism which is rate limiter.
Very very important from interview perspective.
Even when you are building the services, also in the product based system like that's also is very
important.
So rate limiter is what it controls.
The number of requests allowed to a microservice in a given time window.
Let's say that in this time window a particular time window limited time window let's say five second
ten second, whatever, how much requests can go through.
So in short, it protect our system from sudden traffic spike like a DDoS attack.
Okay, so there are multiple mechanisms or algorithms in rate limiter before even we goes to the implementation,
let's quickly see what are all the algorithm.
So there are most commonly five algorithm fixed window counter sliding log sliding window counter which
again has two flavors token bucket and leaky bucket.
So quickly in five ten minutes we will try to go through each so that uh, when we see the implementation,
we will at least get to know what rate limiter actually does internally.
So fixed window counter.
Let's see the first fixed window counter.
It is very very simple.
It counts how many requests happens in fixed window.
If the count crossed the limit then reject the request.
For example, let's say this is the time period I am currently putting in two seconds.
Uh, actually, in coding it could be nanoseconds.
Okay, but for simplicity, for understanding purpose, let's consider that this is the time period
that every request can come at seconds 0123456.
Like this.
Now we have put a limit five that at in a particular fixed window.
If only five requests are allowed, if more than five comes rejected okay, so limit is five and window
fixed window size I have given 10s.
So now here if you see this is window one.
This is window one 0 to 10.
This is window 210 to 20.
Okay.
Similarly window three would be 20 to 30.
Like this.
Now in each window maximum count maximum request allowed is only five.
So now let's say one request is comes at one second, then here, then here, then here then here.
Total five requests.
So all five are allowed because limit is five for this window and currently it's within a limit.
Now here if you see in window 212345.
So these five are allowed because limit is five.
As soon as the sixth request comes.
So in this window 10 to 20 second only five requests.
But this six is not allowed.
It is crossing the limit.
So that's why it is rejected.
Okay if any more requests will come.
That is also rejected because in this fixed window already five request has come.
Now in the next window again new request can come till it's don't reach its limit.
Limit is five.
Very simple right?
But there is a disadvantage.
Disadvantage is that.
What if this is window one.
This is window two.
What if all the five requests comes at the last of this window one.
And all the requests in the next window comes at the start of its window?
Now here, if you see in one second ten request has come.
Okay.
So that is possible.
So if traffic comes at edge then there is a chance of sudden spike.
Okay.
So this is one of the disadvantage in uh you can say that fixed window counter because it's a window
fixed window and you are just counting.
Like, okay, this many requests are allowed.
Now the request can comes spread across the window or it can come like this.
But if it comes like this, then if you see in the one second ten requests, your system is able to
accept which it might not be able to handle it.
Okay.
Then there is something called sliding lock.
Also, again, very simple, but with a very familiar data structures which we use sliding window.
Right.
So it is very very similar to that one.
For each accepted request it is stored.
The exact timestamp for each request comes in it.
First check how many requests happen in x seconds window size.
So there is a window slide slider window.
You can say that we put that okay 10s 20s whatever.
So that would be its size.
Okay.
If number of requests reached the limit, it will reject the request.
We will see that with an example.
So here if you see window size I have put 10s.
So this is my the slider size.
So my slider size is ten second.
And in this slider size ten second maximum limit is five maximum five requests I should accept it.
Not more than that.
Now for each accepted request it store the exact timestamp.
Now let's say that first request is coming at this point.
So let's say time is started with ten 0000.
So this is ten 0002 two seconds.
First request is came windows slider window is still this only.
Okay then second request comes at this ten .00.05.
So it is logging the timestamp.
Third request comes at this 10.0007 accepted because limit is five and only three is there.
And then fourth request come at ten 00099.
Second okay.
All four are accepted.
Now let's say that the time reached till here.
Okay.
So our window size is ten.
So it has to slide.
So now window slides to 10s okay.
So now this is our current window.
Now current window is let's say we are assuming that time period is in seconds.
So it is moving second by second.
So earlier window was started from ten zero zero.
Now it's ten 000 1 to 11.
So this is my window size now.
So it will only consider requests within this window.
So in this window till now how many requests are there.
1234 till nine it cames right.
Now Let's say at 11, another request is coming.
Will it be able to accept it?
So currently in this window only four limit is five.
So yes, it will accept it.
Okay.
Now let's say that now window moves again.
Now let's say that when the time reached till here.
So window has to slide.
So window now slides to this ten 000022 1210 zero zero 12.
Now this is my window.
Now I will check if a request is coming.
New request is coming.
Does this window has how many requests?
12345.
Already five is there which is already reached our limit in the window.
Now you are trying to accept a new request which is in a window, so it will reject it.
Okay.
So very simple right?
It just slides and it just keep track of the accepted request timestamp.
Now here, if you see that one, you can say that one of the disadvantage of this also that one thing
is you already know that it has to manage the timestamp, okay.
Which is you require a memory for that.
Write more request means you have to store their timestamp.
Another problem is that now let's say that windows slides again window time reached till here.
Okay.
So window has to slide.
So it slide one second again.
So now our time is this 032 13.
Now here if you see that any timestamp of a request which we recorded which is now you can say that
out of the window it has to be clean up.
Right.
So that is your extra task which you have to do because you only need to consider the timestamp which
are present inside a window.
All the timestamp which are beyond the beyond or before the window.
It has to be cleaned up.
So that is disadvantage.
Extra overhead of cleanup and you need more memory to store the time frame.
Okay.
So very very sliding window kind of uh solution which is just like based on timestamp.
Now we have our third is sliding window counter.
Okay.
So it has two flavors.
Both flavors are simple.
So first flavor is sliding window counter with sub windows.
So understand that is that main window is divided into equal size sub windows.
Keep track of the number of requests in each sub window to decide if requests need to be rejected or
not.
It considers only the active sub windows.
Main window slides over time.
Don't worry about this now.
We will understand this.
Four lines with an example and it will get clearly.
So one thing is we have something called main window.
So let's say window size is 10s which ultimately gonna slide.
Okay so we have ten second window.
Then we have sub window of two seconds.
So this is our main window.
This yellow one yellow bucket is our main window of ten second okay.
Then we have sub windows of two two seconds.
So means this main window is divided into two two seconds.
Sub windows 0 to 2, 2 to 4, 4 to 6, 6 to 8 and 8 to 10.
These are sub windows okay.
And limit is five in a particular window in a particular window.
Max is five requests we can accept.
Okay, now what it will do.
Let's see that how it.
So till now it is clear.
Right.
One we have main window.
Another is the main window is subdivided into sub windows.
Now for any new request let's say multiple requests are coming.
So request comes at here.
Limit is five.
It is one.
Limit is five.
Only two limit is five.
Only three limit is five.
Only four.
So till now it accept.
Now let's say that a new request is coming at this nine second.
So it will sum up the requests in all active Subwindows.
All active Subwindows.
So here the ultimately window size is main window size is 10s.
So currently we are at here at this nine.
So it's some window is this one.
This is one sub window 8 to 10, so it has to count how many number of requests comes into this window
plus this window, because it has to sum up the sub windows of 10s because main window is 10s.
Okay.
So it has to sum this up.
So ultimately you can say that it all sub window task is to manage how many requests coming in their
window.
Sub window okay.
So ultimately all the sub windows which are present into the main window it will just sum it up okay.
So here at the ninth second.
So what are the sub windows.
This one 0 to 2 2 to 4, 4 to 6 6 to 8 and 8 to 10.
So total zero to 10s.
So this is your main window inside this main window these are the five sub windows okay.
Each subwindow is maintaining how many requests comes in their window.
Subwindows.
Okay, so we just sum it up in 0 to 2 second Subwindow.
Only one request comes, so it has maintaining that 2 to 4 only one request came.
It is maintaining that 4 to 6 only one request came 6 to 8 only one.
And in 8 to 10 currently zero.
So how many requests till now?
Four.
And the limit is five.
So request is allowed at nine.
Okay.
It will get more clear which say that.
Now let's say time has reached till this point.
Time has reached till this point.
Now window has to move.
The main window has to move.
So how much it will move now?
Will it move by one one second?
No it will here in this it will move by window size two seconds.
So two second it will move okay.
So now you see that where the subwindow also comes into the.
So Subwindow has two part.
One is maintain the count of requests within that window particular window.
Also is that the main window?
Slides.
Or you can say that jump according to sub window size.
So sub windows two second.
So when the time reached till this cross this main window size or main window is ten second.
Right now time is still here.
So it has to move.
So how much it will move.
It will move by one window size.
So now our size is this 2 to 12.
Earlier it was 0 to 10.
Now it is 2 to 12.
Okay.
So here sub windows would be now this one.
These are the active sub windows.
2 to 4 one.
4 to 6 is the second.
6 to 8 is your third.
8 to 10 is your fourth.
10 to 12 is your fifth.
So these are the five sub windows of two two seconds okay.
And these are the active.
This one is not active now because this is now before the or you can say that the expired sub window
okay.
So now when at 11th request is coming.
So it has to consider all the active sub window.
So this active one of the sub window is 10 to 12 10 to 12.
So 2 to 4, 4 to 6 628 8 to 10 10 to 12.
So all the sub windows present into this main sub main window.
It will only consider that.
And each sub window maintain how many requests comes into that period Okay.
So they will provide that.
And ultimately it takes the count and it will.
Don't consider the expired subwindow.
Okay.
So simple this one.
So what are the disadvantages.
First is more complex than fixed window logic.
Like you have to maintain a subwindows.
And for each subwindows you have to maintain the count of requests.
Okay.
And when the window slides it has to jump according to the subwindows.
So that is one thing.
Second thing is it also required more memory because you have to maintain a subwindow kind of information.
So another flavor of this is which is little bit simple is sliding window counter with waited window.
Okay.
So this is actually a combination of fixed window plus sliding lock concept.
So in fixed window what we have is let's say fixed window is of ten.
Second window is of ten 10s.
So we have a fixed 0 to 10, 10 to 20, 20 to 30 like this.
We have fixed windows okay.
Like this is yellow green.
So these are fixed windows and sliding lock.
So inside this there we will have a slider window also of a similar size 10s.
So ten second ten second.
We have a window right.
Slider window is also ten second.
So this slider window can slide.
And when it slide some part of it might be into the previous window.
Or another part would be into the current window.
You can say that.
So here if you see that the window one has zero to 10s.
And another window window two, window one.
Window one is 0 to 10, window two is 10 to 20.
And this slider window has 80% currently into window one and 20% into window two.
So it is possible.
Okay, so here we have given a weight.
Now it simplifies our previous uh where we are doing with sliding window with sub windows.
Right.
It simplifies some task for us that we don't have to maintain the sub windows.
We don't have to maintain the sub windows like fixed window.
We maintain that okay.
In this window 0 to 10 0 to 10.
How many requests comes.
Let's say five let's say for whatever.
So it just maintain a total request not sub window type okay.
So see this example.
Let's say our limit is five okay.
In us in a particular slide window maximum five requests we can entertain.
So currently our time is 0 to 10.
Our current time is 0 to 10 Okay.
So now let's say that the our window slider window is also currently here.
Zero to turn all 100% slider window is in the fixed window one okay.
Now request is coming at fifth.
All 100% inside this only then 6789.
So 123455 request comes totally.
It is within a limit of five of slider window okay.
So all are accepted okay.
So total request count in a fixed window is five currently because see here in 0 to 10 it just maintain
how many requests come.
So total five.
Total five.
Request accepted.
Now you will get clarified like how it works.
Now let's say time reached till this point okay means time reached into the second window.
Now window two.
So this slider has to move internally.
So now slider has moved till one to.
Now the window is slider.
Window is 1 to 11.
Earlier it was 0 to 10.
Now it moved by one second 1 to 11.
So if you see that the slider 90% is in window one and currently 10% is in window two, so it need to
see how many traffic how many requests are accepted within this window slider window.
So now just see that it very very basic mathematics only.
So it just find total request.
Total request equals to current.
Fixed window request count plus.
So means whatever in the current window.
This is the current window right.
This is the current window.
How many total requests are present into that?
How many total requests we have accepted?
Currently zero plus.
Because see here we have just moved right 90%.
So how many percentage currently we have here is 90%.
The 90% of total request which are entertained into this window one 0 to 10.
So total five because we are only 90% over window slider window is into the window one fixed window
one.
Right.
So only whatever the total request we have, we only consider this 90% okay.
So let's say it comes out to be a 90% of five is 4.5.
So let's say if we just do ceil round off.
So it would be considered as a five only.
So five is our limit for a slider window.
So we don't allow a request.
So we don't allow request here.
No.
Simple.
Now you will see that disadvantage also.
Plus with another example here also.
Now the request reached till here okay.
Currently slider window at 0 to 11 right 0 to 11.
Now time reached till here between 11 to 12.
So means slider has to move.
So now let's say slider has moved.
Now it become 2 to 12.
This is my slider window now.
So how much it is in 80%.
So 80% is in window one and 20% now is in window two.
So how many total request.
Now let's say any new request is coming.
Should I accept it or reject it.
It has to do first calculate that how many total requests it has present into the slider window.
So current request count.
Okay.
Uh, you can say that the current window.
Current window.
What is the request count.
So currently in 10 to 12.
Window to 10 to 12 zero requests plus 80% of.
So currently 80% of our window slider window is into the window one.
Right.
So 80% of what are the total number of requests was five.
So it just said 80% of five which is four.
So four is less than five because five is our limit of a window slider window.
So it will accept it.
It will accept it.
But now you see that this is the disadvantage itself okay.
But because now in this slider 2 to 12, how many requests came.
123456.
Six it become more than five.
Why?
Because it do not maintain subwindows.
It just compute total requests in a fixed window size.
So what if all the requests present into here at end of the fixed window?
So what happen is our slider will keep on moving.
And when the slider keep on moving its percentage present into the fixed window keep on reducing.
And when this number your keep on reducing then only this ultimately will get increase.
So currently here if you see that there is a chance like 80% when you compute for this, it gives you
four.
It is not accurate info.
So there is a chance that you might entertain more requests than the limit.
Okay.
So 80% of total request, so it accepted 80% of total request is for.
So it assumed that these requests are spread throughout the window, which is actually not the case.
What if all the requests are end of this?
And if you are doing 80%, then it might give you four.
But that's not the true.
Okay, so this is one of the disadvantage of the weighted window.
I hope it is clear with this diagram like how the window slides, uh, within a fixed windows.
Then we have token bucket.
Token bucket is very, very simplified versions.
And uh what happen is we have a kind assume it like we have a bucket and we place the limited tokens
inside it.
Each request consume one token.
If there is no token left, request is denied.
And there is also a refiller which adds the token in bucket at regular time interval.
If bucket capacity is full and cannot hold more token, token overflow will happen and token will be
rejected.
So understand with this is that this is one bucket which has capacity of four token.
So 12344 tokens are present.
There is a refiller which task is to add one token every six seconds.
Okay.
So now lets say that at 12345 second five requests comes up.
So first four because we have four tokens right.
So first request take one token.
Accepted accepted accepted accepted.
Now all four tokens are used.
Okay.
Now fifth request.
Come.
Any token left.
No.
So it is rejected.
Now at sixth second, a refiller adds one token.
So Refiller added one token into the bucket because we have configured it.
Add one token every six second.
So at six second one token is added.
Now if any request comes, it will use it and accept it.
Very very simple.
So disadvantage is that a quick burst is possible if token capacity is not set properly.
What if I have put a token that in a bucket I have capacity equals to 1000 I.
Without doing proper computation, I give random capacity.
Then means that much token can get accumulated.
And what if in a one second itself sudden request comes all 1000, so all 1000 will get accepted.
So there is a chance of burst traffic, okay.
Because whatever the amount of tokens present, that much concurrent request can be accepted.
So you have to consider this token capacity properly.
Okay.
Another is leaky bucket.
Leaky bucket is considered as like request are queued and accepted at fixed rate.
If queue is full, incoming request will overflow.
So let's say you have an incoming request.
Okay bucket.
Or you can say that a queue which is keep on accumulating the request.
Okay.
And the queues are accepted at a very constant or very fixed rate.
So consider this with the flow diagram a request comes if queue is full.
If this queue is full then it will send denied and it will send http 4 to 9.
Too many requests can't even accept.
If queue has some space then it will add the request at the end of the queue and from the queue.
Our system will keep accept the request in a very constant rate.
Very very constant rate.
So very simple.
But disadvantage is your latency will increase because requests might have to wait in queue for its
turn.
So request which is present here.
It has to wait for the previous request to finish and to be accepted.
And your queue is become a bottleneck.
So site size should be set properly.
If the size of the queue is very small, you would be denying lot many requests.
If the size is too big, your latency will increase a lot.
Okay.
And also memory.
You need it right?
So these are various algorithms of rate limiter.
I hope with this examples it will be clear.
Just go through this example one more time slowly and read those texts like the definition which I have
written like this.
Right.
You read it, you will get clarified little better.
Okay, so we will.
Now let's see that how it got implemented in Spring Boot.
So yeah implementation is spring boot.
So first thing first we need resilience for j dependency.
So I have added this dependency.
This one any stable version you can pick right.
So this is the dependency I have added in my pom.xml.
Now rate limiter is just a mechanism inside resilience for J.
Right.
So rate limiting framework will also come inside that also all the classes will come with this resilience
for J itself.
Now here if you see first thing is as usual no change your controller.
So controller is now accepting like any API which you hit.
Just see that I have created a service order service.
Okay.
This is my order service.
So controller is invoking an endpoint here right.
Invoke product API.
So it is just invoking Invoke Product API.
And inside this method I am actually doing invoking the endpoint of a product component okay.
So here we have order component.
It is trying to invoke a product component okay.
So this is the controller.
And here in this I am just invoking a service and order service.
And there this method nothing much.
Second is I am using a faint client.
Right.
We have already covered this in depth.
So I think by this itself you can collect what is happening.
So I have given one interface for the product line get product by ID.
Okay, so this is my name.
I am using Service Discovery.
This all thing we have covered already in this playlist.
So it is pretty clear that we are using.
We can use any client fame, client, Rest template Rest client which will be used to communicate between
order and product component.
Okay, so this is also nothing much.
We have already seen that.
Now here if you see in the order service the method which we have written which is like ultimately invoking
this.
Interface client interface.
Right.
Get product by ID.
This is as usual we are invoking but only this red bucket.
This is the something which is deferred.
So here I have annotated this method with at the rate limiter annotation.
Just give it a name any name to this rate limiter.
Let's say I have given a product rate limiter because I am invoking a product API.
So I have given a name product rate limiter and the fallback method.
So now let's say that multiple requests comes and your rate limiter denied one of the request.
So this request which got denied how it handled.
So there is a fallback method.
So we need to provide.
So it will ultimately move to that fallback method.
So what.
So here I have written that fallback method.
So the method name is rate limited fallback.
So rate limited fallback right inside that you can throw exception or like how you wanted the exception.
You can handle it here.
Either you can simply throw the exception here or like you wanted to handle it, you can handle it according
to your business logic.
So only thing which we required is after dependency.
Whichever the method where you are actually invoking the end point.
So this is the method where I am actually invoking the end point.
You have already seen this in Franklin.
How to invoke it?
I am invoking product this.
But only thing is this is the first thing which we required for this slide annotation.
We have to put the rate limiter annotation on top of that method.
Give it any name to this rate limiter.
Provide a fallback method okay.
And this fallback method should have a signature similar to your.
This method original method where you have written the rate limiter return type should be same.
The parameter it accepts a string, so string it should have a string.
Also, only thing is, apart from all the similarity apart, the next additional parameter it should
have is a throwable.
That's all.
Apart from that, all the parameters should match with your original method, because if it do not match,
the framework resilience framework will not be able to identify your fallback method, and it ultimately
moves to the default fallback method.
So resilience has some called rate limiter class rate limiter class in that they have something called
default method.
Default fallback method.
So first it will try to look that hey exact signature fallback is present or not means return.
Whatever the method you have written here, method name.
That method name is present or not.
Its signature is same or not.
Return type should be same parameters string.
So it also has a string and additionally it can have just throwable okay.
So that is the first thing which we have to do.
Very important.
Like put a rate limiter annotation, provide a fallback method and then in application dot properties
here if you see we have to provide this configuration.
So resilience for j by default rate limiter uses token bucket, so it has three properties.
Limit for period limit refresh period time duration.
So means your bucket maximum number of token it has is two.
Maximum number of token it can have is two.
Okay.
There is a Refiller.
After every 10s it will run and insert two token.
After 10s it will keep on adding two token, but the bucket size is also two the same.
Whatever the limit for period is the same, it is the same bucket size.
Also how many token after ten second two only.
Okay, so let's say that no traffic is come.
Bucket has already two tokens.
If after 10s another two token it try to add it will overflow.
So only two is the maximum capacity.
If more you will try to add, it will overflow and it doesn't get added to bucket.
Now let's say that two token were present.
Three request came.
So this request one accepted.
This token request two has used this token.
Now request 310 second is not yet over.
So new token hasn't been added.
So what?
Request three will done.
It will get rejected.
Right.
So we we can provide a timeout duration.
Hey, wait for one second before you get rejected.
If after one second also there is no new token get added, then you can get rejected.
Okay, so this is the timeout period.
We can define that any request which are not able to find a token instead of instant rejection, we
can make it wait for at least one second if in case token might get present.
Okay, so these are all things we have to do.
Now, you might be thinking that.
Hey, Shreyansh how this by putting this rate limiter, we have put this rate limiter right annotation
how this might have working internally.
It uses the concept of AOP which in the spring boot playlist itself I have discovered in depth very
important AOP.
So it uses the AOP functionality only.
Or you can say that the complete functionality is via AOP only.
I won't go in depth of how AOP works because that's where I have discussed in depth various point cuts
expression.
Right?
So everything you will get to know and you know that we have also discussed how we can write our own
annotation.
Right.
We can handle the complete rate limiter through AOP itself.
No special framework code.
So what happened is that this rate limiter.
Like through AOP, it intercepts the request.
What it does is it first do your rate limiting logic.
Okay.
So by default it uses token based algorithm.
Right.
So first it will invoke the class which has token bucket implementation.
And after that from where if it is comes as accepted then it actually proceed.
You remember from AOP we call proceed.
So ultimately invoke the endpoint.
So here ah I will go to this output part again.
Uh but first see that let's say that uh this will give you a reminder how AOP works.
I'm not going in depth, but if you remember from that AOP topic, you.
Let's say I want to write my you say that hey, I want to write my own custom rate limiter.
I don't want to use token bucket.
I don't want to use whatever the default it is providing.
I want to write my own rate limiter.
So I told you that the rate limiter if you want.
Different algorithm.
You have to handle it through AOP completely okay.
So now let's say that first I have to define an annotation.
So I have defined a custom rate limiter annotation we have already seen into this spring boot playlist
how we can define a custom annotation.
The second part is in the AOP.
I have told you that we have to write an expect class, right?
Expect class where we provide this Pointcuts.
Okay, so now it is listening to this annotation and what it has to do once this annotation is called
what it has to do, it has to first do a rate limiting logic.
Now, whatever the algorithm you want, you can put it ultimately ultimately called proceed, which
ultimately invokes the method.
Right.
This is your ultimately method, right on which you have put this annotation at the rate custom rate
limiter.
Okay, so before actually calling this get product method, you can say it first call this method or
implement the custom rate limiting logic.
And after that it proceed.
After that it implement this method.
So this we have already done inside AOP.
So I won't go into that again.
So in the Spring Boot playlist you can check out this AOP one.
So coming back to this now let's say that with rate limiter right we have provided a rate limiter rate
limiter name fallback method.
In fallback method Its signature should be same as the original method, return type and parameter.
Only thing is throwable should be extra.
How you handle it is totally up to you.
You want to just log it, log it.
You want to throw exception.
You can throw it in the application.properties by default rate.
Limited uses are again token bucket.
And these are the parameters which you have set.
Now according to this one we said that only two tokens are present, and after 10s two more tokens will
come and any request which not able to find a token should wait for one second before it get rejected.
So now here, if you see I have started the service now.
First I hit instantly hit one so it able to call it able to call product API.
Second time I call it able to get call a product API because it got token, it got token the third time
I called.
It says that rate limit exceeded.
Try again later.
So this one, it printed out this.
Okay then I waited for some time to over the ten second so that two more tokens get added.
So after that I hit again.
Able to hit.
So two tokens are consumed again I hit rate limit exceeded.
Try again later.
Then I waited 10s and then I hit again.
So two times it hit properly.
Two tokens consume and I try to hit no rate limited exceeded.
So this is a very very simple right.
So this is what we have done.
Right.
So the same configuration just here if you see from postman hit one time you got it two times.
So see here it waited now.
So because here is some wait happened right.
That's why uh so ten second was over.
So now let's say that let me quickly call one two weighted.
So after two calls retry.
Now ten second is over again.
One two wait.
Now let's say I'm quickly hitting.
Keep on hitting.
123.
Wait wait wait.
So till now here if you see two times token used now hit continuously hit.
So rate limit exceeded because ten second is not yet over.
Token is not yet added.
Now if you hit it, it got invoked.
Okay.
So you understood right how we can implement the rate limiter okay.
And this name rate limiter.
Name product rate limiter.
This is ultimately useful in the configuration itself.
Resilience for J dot rate limiter dot instance.
Because there can be many endpoints on which you have to put this rate limiter.
Okay.
So many configuration you have to put.
So this configuration is for this product rate limiter.
This is product rate limiter.
Similarly you can have for some other component let's say sales rate limiter.
Okay.
I hope this rate limiter concept is clear.
And next we will see bulkhead time limiter circuit breaker and retry.
If any doubt please feel free to, uh ping in the comment section.
We can discuss further, but I would highly recommend that.
Please go through one more time.
I tried to make sure that I don't repeat a lot.
Same concept.
Uh, because that's what I get some time in comment that, uh, I go little fast.
So if you think that I am little fast, I would say that.
Try to have a look one more time and things will get little clear to you.
Okay, guys.
Thank you.
Bye.

--- Bulkhead Pattern ---

Hey guys.
And welcome back to the channel.
And let's start today with the fault tolerant Microservices part two.
So in part one we have already seen about rate limiter.
And if you have not seen it kindly have a look because that's uh you will understand what is actually
fault tolerant microservices are.
So today we will start with the bulkhead and see what are the various use cases it supports.
That's also very important like when we are going to build the bulkhead.
So very quick rate limiter.
It protects our application from clients.
This is why I am telling you again about rate rate limiter in just one minute is because clear distinction
need to be present between rate limiter and bulkhead, because many times a confusion happens like which
one is bulkhead?
Which one is rate limiter.
So focus here is that rate limiter protects our application.
Let's say our application is order.
It protects our application.
From whom?
From clients.
So let's say this is my client.
And client is sending me too many requests.
So it limited limit them.
Hey, how many requests we can accept within a specific window.
Right.
And also one more thing is rate limit and never talks about concurrency.
So just rate limit.
Rate limit says that hey I can accept ten requests in one minute.
Either you can send me ten requests in one shot or one by one.
It never talks about concurrency.
It just says that what is the limit?
Okay.
But it protect us from our clients.
Now let's go to the bulkhead that it helps to control how many concurrent requests can go to downstream
service.
Now let's say this is our service order now.
I am more concerned about the request which I am sending to my downstream.
Now, I am not concerned about the request which I am getting from my clients.
Okay, so that is one of the major difference.
And bulkhead majorly talks about the concurrent request.
We will see that.
And if you understand this two use cases right.
So there are two possible use cases.
If you understand those two use cases, no matter when a interviewer or in your implementation, like
a scenario is put, you would be able to clearly understand that whether rate limiter or bulkhead need
to be applied.
So understand that one is very very simple use case.
Let's say you have order.
This is your component and this is your downstream product.
So order invokes product API.
Let's say product is a small and lightweight service and can only handle three concurrent requests.
Okay.
And product itself is very lightweight.
It doesn't have put rate limiter on itself.
Okay.
But with the bulkhead you can control that.
Okay.
So you know, that product can handle only three concurrent requests at a time.
Okay.
So it accepts three requests all at the same time.
But when the fourth comes.
No.
There is no thread left.
So when any one of them get free, then the another request would get fulfilled.
Okay.
So this is very, very simple use case.
Very simple use case.
And this use case is resolved through schema for bulkhead.
So there are two types of bulkhead one is schema for bulkhead.
We have seen another one I am going to tell.
But for this use case whenever interviewer put this use case for bulkhead is our answer.
Okay, we will see it how it, uh, functionality.
But I think this is clear, right?
Whenever there is a condition that, uh, you have a downstream which can only accept this many concurrent
requests, how you can handle it through Sema for bulkhead.
Okay.
Another use case.
Very, very important use case.
And also remember that before I go to this use case, remember one very, very important system design
problem which is like a noisy neighbor.
Problem.
If you can recall this problem, what it says that let's say this is your application.
And your application have multiple tenants.
Tenant 110 and 210 and three.
So let's say that you have one of the tenant which is very, very noisy.
Like the traffic from this tenant is so high that it consume all resources, all resources, and even
the tenants, which are not like, uh, sending that much traffic or let's say they are just hitting
one call, but their request is denied because all of your resources are used by one tenant.
That is known as noisy neighbor problem, that you have one neighbor which is very noisy, a very,
very similar.
But you can say that the context is very, uh, narrow in this use case, noisy neighbor context is
big, like it includes thread infrastructure, resources DB like Everything.
If your tenant is using the resources like consider everything, DB resource, infrastructures, threads,
everything.
But here we are mostly talking about thread in this use case.
Now consider this use case.
You will find very very similarity to noisy neighbor.
But the context is again I'm telling it's very narrow noisy neighbor problem.
Context is very broader.
So let's say that API one makes a downstream call to product service.
So I have.
So this is our component order is our component.
And we have API one which when it gets invoked it make a call to product service.
Product service is very fast right.
Product service returns the response in less than 100 millisecond only.
So it's a very fast service.
Okay, now we have API two.
And when this API got invoked, it actually invokes internally payment service.
Now this payment service is slow.
It might take five seconds to process a request.
Let's say it has to further go to third party endpoint.
But this is slow.
This is slow service.
And for API one the product is fast service.
This is our setup.
Now let's say what if there is a sudden spike in API two traffic?
What if there is a sudden spike in API two traffic and it internally invoke the payment component,
which is slow?
Now your thread got blocked for five seconds.
Thread one got blocked for five, second thread two got blocked for five seconds.
Similarly your N threads got blocked for five seconds.
Okay.
So when a sudden spike comes in API, two do.
More and more calls are made to payment service, which is slow, and it is possible that they might
not be a concurrent.
But since this is a slow service, it blocks your thread longer for five seconds and more, and it possible
that your all threads of order service are now blocked.
So let's say it has a thread pool of ten threads and there is a sudden spike comes in API to all ten
threads are now blocked here.
Okay, so there is no thread here.
Just assume that.
Now if any request comes to API one okay.
And this API one, will it be able to fulfill it?
No, there is no thread left in the thread pool.
So either it has to wait or it will get rejected.
So even though.
It invokes a very fast service, there is not much traffic to API one, but still it gets suffer because
of API two.
So you can say that.
We can.
So you remember there is a ship concept.
So in a ship there are different compartments.
So if water fills up into one of the compartment they block it so that water do not spill over into
the rest of the compartment.
So very very similar concept is used in the use case two if you are.
So they will put a limit.
They will put a limit.
Or you can say that threadpool.
So they limit the threads.
Hey API two they I know that you are invoking an endpoint which is very slow.
So I give you only max five threads.
Let's say you can't use more threads than that.
Okay, so even though I have total ten threads in my order thread pool, we I have only allocated five
threads to API two, not more than that.
Okay, so I have and if let's say suddenly more requests coming in the API to more than five.
Either they have to wait it or get rejected because the max I can allocate is fifth.
So you can say that similar to this one, I have provided a limit.
Okay.
So that only resource I can provide you an okay.
So that my other endpoint do not suffer.
So you understand this use case.
Whenever we have multiple endpoint and one of the endpoint, we have to make sure that it do not consume
all the resources.
Then bulkhead can be used and it has a thread pool bulkhead type.
So this is the second type of bulkhead thread pool bulkhead through which we can limit the resource
to a particular endpoint.
Okay.
So we'll see that also.
So these are the two types of bulkhead.
Thread pool bulkhead.
Let's go one by one.
So for bulkhead limit the number of concurrent calls using counter.
Okay.
So you have this API.
You have this product service.
So max three concurrent calls forth one should be rejected.
So at a time three calls can go into your critical section.
You can say that critical section critical section.
Here is the one where we are invoking the API.
The one where we are invoking the API.
Consider that that is our critical section.
So three calls are allowed.
Three threads are allowed.
The fourth thread it has to wait till one of them get is free.
Okay.
So if you understand the bulk, if you need to understand the bulkhead, Understand more like a thread,
pools and all.
So in that case it would be easy to understand.
So when I say that three calls so just says that only we have three threads okay.
So only three concurrent requests Max can go to this critical section.
The fourth one it will get rejected because there is no thread left.
Now why the name semaphore.
Because the counter.
How it managed that only three requests can go.
So it uses a semaphore locking strategy.
So if you are following the Java playlist also in that multithreading series, I have told about the
semaphore locks in that I have explained, like how semaphore manages the counter that allows three
calls or four calls or five calls.
Whatever the number we will give that many requests can goes into a critical section.
So internally it uses a semaphore lock.
Okay.
So kindly have a look if you have any doubt with the semaphore how semaphore locking works.
How it allow n number of concurrent calls.
Okay.
So in short limit the number of concurrent calls using counter.
And here internally it uses semaphore lock.
If the limit is reached further calls are rejected immediately or block for a specific wait time.
Let's see that the first thing first, like we did in the rate limiter, we have to add a dependency
only.
We have to add a dependency of resilience.
For J.
That's all because resilience for J provide us multiple fault tolerance like rate limiter, bulkhead
retry, circuit breaker and all.
So we don't have to individually download the dependency resilience for J.
Dependency is enough.
This is just a controller like we have normal.
No change.
The feign client I am using.
Yeah.
So controller is invoking the product service method invoke product API.
Okay.
So let's say that this is the place where I'm actually invoking my other application product here.
It has one endpoint API.
Okay.
And this is my order component.
And I am trying to invoke the product call.
That's the place.
So here I am just invoking it very normal using feign client know nothing difference.
But now this annotation I have put on top of it at the bulkhead.
Bulkhead.
Give a name to this.
What is the type of bulkhead you want to use?
So I want to use bulkhead type dot semaphore.
Okay.
And what is the fallback method?
if there is any thing happen.
Let's say that semaphore if it reaches the limit three concurrent request.
Fourth comes which get are either queued or failed.
So once it is failed, it moves to the fallback method.
This one.
Now what will happen here is also.
So this one is simple right?
We have to just put annotation.
We will see how it works.
So now let's see that application dot properties.
In application dot properties we have to put resilience dot bulkhead dot instance the name we have given
here the bulkhead name.
What is the maximum concurrent called is two.
Maximum concurrent call means maximum concurrent threads are allowed into a critical section.
So this is considered my critical section.
Maximum threads can go inside which can invoke the product API.
Okay.
So maximum I want is two.
Not more than that.
And there is something called max wait duration.
Currently I put it zero means fail it immediately.
Don't even wait it.
If there is no thread left, fail it immediately and call the product fallback method.
But if you want that hey, it should not fail immediately.
Then you can provide some values here like so you can provide like 500 Ms. milliseconds one second like
this.
So you can provide in Ms. is for milliseconds S for second M for minute, H for hours D for delay.
So here if you see if wait time is zero reject immediately wait time.
You can also give 300 millisecond two second one minute.
Like this.
You can define based on like how much time you want a particular thread to wait before it get rejected
immediately.
Make sense?
So this.
I told you that this.
Everything is handled by AOP.
AOP at runtime.
Proxy code.
Okay.
So when this annotation is seen by AOP, it add a proxy code and it knows that it has a semaphore.
And this is a code and it will use this semaphore locking strategy.
It just add a code for the semaphore lock how the semaphore lock is implemented.
So if you see this semaphore functionality right you will easily get to know how this concurrency handled.
Okay I will put it into the description section also that the link for this video.
So you can check the semaphore part only so that it will get clear to you.
but semaphore bulkhead is clear, right?
Why exactly it is used for.
Okay, now see the thread pool bulkhead.
So again one thing is in thread pool bulkhead, we are managing what we are limiting one of our API.
You can say that or a critical section place so that it don't consume all the resource.
So it is calling this.
It is calling this let's say.
So I'm limiting this that hey, when you are invoking this downstream use only this much resource.
You can't use all the resource or all the threads.
Okay.
So that my other end points or my other my complete as a whole application should not get affected because
of this.
So assign a dedicated thread pool for each service.
Each service means let's say you have a payment service like this endpoint is invoking a payment service.
You can provide a dedicated thread pool for this if you have let's say sales order is calling sales
service.
You can provide a dedicated thread pool like okay, you can use this much resource only if you are invoking
this downstream service.
Okay.
Only that pool is used to call the downstream.
Very important.
It is only for the downstream.
Okay, but first thing first as the name thread pool bulk ahead.
What it is using thread pool again in the Java, the whole dedicated video of thread pool and thread
pool.
Executor I have created very in depth.
I have explained how exactly thread pools works, so kindly have a look like it will help you understand
like what internally AOP might be doing how it is creating a thread pool, how it is adding a task into
a thread pool.
So thread pool has let's say task, initial task or initial threads, let's say four threads.
Also it has a queue of size particular size n.
So task has to be submitted.
And once it is submitted, if there is no thread, will it put here or it will reject it.
So we have all the points discussed here.
So kindly have a look of thread pool.
Then it would be little bit more clear how internally AOP might be doing it.
So here if you see its implementation nothing much difference.
So here the order service where we are invoking the product API.
So you can see that this is our critical section.
Okay I want to limit that.
Only limited number of threads goes inside.
Okay, so I have put at the bulkhead.
Give it a name of this bulkhead.
Bulkhead type which I'm using is thread pool.
The fallback is this method okay.
Now I am using a thread pool.
Means you know that thread pool has the configuration.
What is the minimum number of threads?
What is the maximum number of threads?
Okay, so that's we have to define what is the queue capacity.
So in application dot properties like this we can define those thread pool properties.
Resilience for thread pool bulkhead instances.
The name this is the name right.
So core thread pool size is the threads which will always be present into a thread pool three maximum
thread pool is three also okay.
So generally what happens is let's say if the you can say that minimum like core is two and maximum
is three, let's say the queue size is your two, or let's say queue size is four.
So 12344 spaces.
So let's say this thread is busy.
This thread is busy.
So both the threads are busy.
Request one.
It is fulfilling.
It is request two it is fulfilling.
If any further requests come then queue would be used.
Then request three would be put here.
Request for request five.
Request six okay so total six requests here.
Now request seven comes now.
There is no thread currently pending because the minimum thread pool or core thread pool is two and
both are working.
Queue is full.
Will it reject the request?
No, because max thread pool size let's say is three, so means it will create new thread and request
seven work on that.
Now if eight comes, does any thread there in the thread pool?
No.
Is any queue has space?
No.
Does the max limit reach?
Yes.
Maximum is three.
Three threads are already working so now this will be rejected.
So I have already explained everything into this one.
So this is just a very quick brief so that you can recall what is minimum thread pool max thread pool
queue capacity.
So based on this configuration it actually creates a thread pool.
How to create a thread pool.
You will get understand when you see this.
Now here if you see EOP proxy intercept your method call okay.
So with the bulkhead it know it.
Intercept your method call.
So it submits your method to bulkhead thread Threadpool configured via Application.properties.
So consider this.
Internally AOP might be doing like this.
Completablefuture supply async.
So this supply async.
Actually submit your request to a thread pool.
Submit your request to thread pool.
Okay.
And the whole method body is submitted as a task.
So this whole method right.
Whatever.
So currently here I am only my critical section is the place downstream API which I am calling.
So you need to make sure very very specific that where you are putting this annotation.
So whatever the business logic validation you have within this method right.
That would be submitted.
Okay.
So use it very carefully.
That only downstream call should be present into this because bulkhead is mostly applicable for the
downstream only.
Controlling the downstream right.
How much resource I can use while calling the downstream.
Okay, so you know that here in the thread pool, this is how this is the way of submitting the request
to a thread or thread pool.
So supply a sink and then you put the your method logic.
The whole method body runs here right.
And which thread pool executor it will has to use.
So it will use bulkhead thread pool executor which it will create using this configuration.
So one thing important is that it returns Completablefuture object.
It returns Completablefuture object.
Why?
Because internally AOP intercepting it and AOP going to submit the request to a thread pool and the
way to submit a request is this Completablefuture supply async?
Because the request might has to wait either in queue or it will get accepted, one thread would be
allocated to it which will start work and it will return the Completablefuture object.
Okay.
And that thread will continue working it.
So the same thing is, since, uh, we are not writing the code, AOP is writing it, but the concept
behind the same it is doing the same.
We get a Completable future object and the AOP also returns a Completablefuture only.
So that's why it want a return type Completablefuture.
Okay, and whatever the fallback method we will write.
Also it should match.
We have already discussed in the rate limiter, so that's why I have a return type.
Similarly here only here it is also string.
String only thing is it has throwable extra.
Okay.
So you can test it like uh I have just added system dot out dot println here just for the testing of
this one.
Like um, so I've just put it like this thread name.
This thread is currently fulfilling this.
Method call.
Right.
So currently we have a thread pool size is three and Q is two.
This is what we have defined right initially.
So here if you see let me clarify a bit.
So here if you see what is the thread pool size three and max is also three.
So maximum we have three threads only and the q is only two.
So here if you see.
I invoke the API six times.
So six times I invoke my endpoint.
So order controller I have invoked order controller is invoking the invoke product API.
So six times I have invoked the API.
So means internally.
So my controller.
My service.
And this is the product API.
Okay.
123456 time I invoke.
So six times they call service method.
You can say that uh my critical section where my logic is there to invoke the product API.
So six times it might have tried to tried to invoke product API, but let's see the behavior.
So first time I have three threads and two queue.
So first time request comes.
So six calls right.
So first one is given to thread one.
So this one is getting fulfilled by thread.
One second request is fulfilled by thread two.
Second request is fulfilled by thread two.
So there are three threads, right?
So thread three fulfill the request three.
So see the name bulkhead product service three.
So it is using my.
Product instance right.
So it's using my thread pool.
Whatever we have created thread pool for product service.
It is not using the common one which is for the My Order application.
No.
Whatever I have created is specifically for my downstream.
It is using that thread pool.
This one.
So this is also a you can validate.
That's why I am printing the thread name right.
So thread one, thread two.
Thread three is also fulfilling.
So now all three threads are busy.
They are fulfilling three requests.
Now request four and request five.
This four and five there is no thread left so it would be inserted into Q okay.
And the sixth one, the my all three threads are busy.
Q is full with request four and five, and the request six will get rejected.
So request six got rejected.
Product service is busy.
Okay, so it got rejected.
Now once two thread got free it will pick from my Q request four and request five will get fulfilled
either by thread one or thread two.
So thread one become free it pick request for thread two become free it become request five.
So exact thread pool functionality no difference.
Whatever.
We have implemented thread pool right into plain Java internally spring AOP just doing that only it
is writing that code for us.
Just this is the configuration and only thing is like uh, this is our task.
Like this is the task.
It is submitted to a thread for processing.
That's all.
Okay.
Yeah.
So this is a very important part.
Um, so here.
Yeah.
One very important thing I wanted to I was looking for that one.
So here, let me clarify a bit a little bit.
Let me delete the writing so that it is clearly visible.
Yeah.
Focus on this part when I am submitting a task here.
Right.
I am putting Completablefuture dot completed future and this here never do supply async.
So we if you know thread pool, you know that in plain Java we are doing this Completablefuture dot
supply async and internally it will submit a task to a thread pool.
This will submit the task to thread pool.
And who should do it?
AOP should do it and AOP is doing that.
AOP internally submit this.
So we should not do supply async here.
We can.
We have to use completed future here.
So completed future is doing nothing.
It is a wrapper like whatever your task.
So this is my actually a task which I want uh to be submitted to a thread pool actually.
Okay.
But I can't do because return type is completablefuture.
I just can't have this.
I have I can't just return a string.
I can't just return a string because return type is completablefuture.
So I have to wrap it up.
So I have to wrap it up inside a Completablefuture object.
That's all.
So completed future.
Do not submit the task to thread pool it only wrap the output, that's all.
So never use supply async here.
So if you just if you want to do testing right just do Completablefuture dot supply async and just submit
this okay.
And also just print the thread pool name.
Just what is the thread name right before submitting just put a thread name.
So like here let's say you are doing dot supply async and this product by id product client by product
by id something something.
And you have a thread name and just see that.
Does your bulkhead thread pool used or not.
It will not because now you are submitting the request.
When you are submitting the request to a thread pool, you are using a thread from your order application,
right?
Your order application you are using it.
So you need to use Aopp because Aopp will now have the proper understanding that, okay, when the bulkhead
annotation is used, this is the name, this is the service.
Then I have to look for Application.properties and whatever the name you have provided for the bulkhead.
That bulkhead, uh, particular name is configuration.
I have to route read.
I have to create a thread pool and use that.
So AOP does that for us and do supply us a method and pass the thread pool executor along with it.
Okay.
So if you just create supply a sink and provide the method, it will use default one, default one for
your order application.
Or either you have to manually handle that.
You have to manually create a thread pool and pass your bulkhead bulkhead thread pool.
executor, then it will use this pool.
But you have to create now.
First executor.
Bulkhead.
Executor.
You have to create first.
For this all configuration you have to create that.
This is the max.
This is the min.
This is the queue.
Once the executor is created.
Now if you are calling the supply async supply async, then provide the task which you want to submit.
Let's say this is the task of calling the downstream.
And then in the comma the executor.
You have to pass this executor you have to pass.
Then it will work fine because now you are creating a executor.
You are passing, you are submitting supply async.
You are submitting to a thread pool, and you are also tell which executor to use.
Now it will not use the common one, but if you just simply do supply async and the task calling the
downstream, let's say this one.
It will use common thread pool and you don't have to manually create a executor because this at the
bulkhead.
Ultimately internally going to do the same thing.
It will first create thread pool executor and then call supply async and pass your this task and how
it thread pool executor is created and all.
It's all discussed here in depth in description section.
I will put this thing.
Got it.
So last one minute.
Let's see our time limiter.
Because I am not going to cover the time limiter.
Reason being is that time limiter is used to prevent async call from hanging indefinitely.
Okay.
Time limiter is non-blocking and resilience for J means it is designed for asynchronous operation that
returns a reactive type like mono flux.
So you remember that in a blocking.
So here if you remember in the pink line.
So pink line rest template rest line.
These are all blocking calls.
These threads are waiting.
And the thread should not wait indefinitely.
They should not hang indefinitely.
So we have provided that connection timeout and timeout.
We have already seen that in the client example.
So we provided right connection timeout.
How much time it takes to make a HTTP or TCP connection read timeout.
How much time I should wait before I get a response from the downstream.
So only this much time it will wait.
It will not wait indefinitely.
So for blocking calls we can handle it through this.
But what about async calls, right?
Let's say you fire and forget this is you fire and forget.
Now async.
There is a thread in asking it is working, how you make sure that it don't hang or continuously work
indefinitely, so that thread should get also freed up.
Okay, so that's where time limiter is used.
So I will cover it when we will cover the web flux reactive programming in that it will make more sense
because in the blocking rest template rest line it does not make sense because it is non-blocking in
resilience 4G.
Okay.
Even if you put into non-blocking let's say at the rate time limiter.
Okay.
So what it will happen is you call, you submit a request, you submit a task to a thread pool, say,
and your thread got freed.
And now async thread is working.
So it will not ultimately free this up.
It will just try to free your this thing which is automatically get freed.
It just submit a task to a thread pool bull and just finished.
Move ahead.
Now this async thread is working.
So here in the blocking mechanism it will not be able to free this async call.
So we will ultimately see when we will start the web flux.
Okay.
So if there is any doubt let me know in the comment section we can discuss further.
But please practice this with hand like play with this configuration.
Debug it and you will understand better right?
And I would say that if you are not familiar with thread pool and this get it more uh like have a look
at once please.
Because then you will get clearly understand that what AOP might be doing inside how it is creating
a thread pool executor, and how it is submitting a request to a thread pool.
Okay.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
Bye.

--- Retry Pattern ---

Hey guys and welcome back to the channel.
So today we will start with retry.
And we have already covered rate limiter in part one bulkhead and part two time limiter.
We are not going to cover.
We will cover it when we will do reactive programming.
So let's start without wasting any time.
And uh, before I start I just want to say that that retry, if in not properly implemented it has more
disadvantages than advantage.
We will get to know why.
So in distributed system call to downstream service might fail because of transient issues.
Transient issues means that short temporary issue like network issue, timeout, etc. and retry of same
request after a short delay can get succeed.
Okay, so one question might comes to you that hey still why we should do retry?
Why can't user or client can invoke our API again.
So let's say that this is our client.
This is our component order.
And we have an API.
And we are invoking another API of let's say product component.
And there is some transient issue while invoking it.
So what we are saying is so transient issues, if we retry it, it can get succeed.
So we can do a retry for this invocation.
So the question is that hey why we need to retry.
Why can't client again invoke the API so that automatically it will invoke the product API again.
Why we have to retry ourself.
So see the answer is for each call lot of heavy processing is done and it's not free of cost, memory,
time, resources, etc. everything like it's there is some cost incurred.
So say you have invoked client at first invoke an API.
90% of the API implementation is completed.
Task is completed.
Only 10% is left.
And then it invoke this product API and the transient issue happen.
Let's say uh network timeout happen.
So is it a good idea to dispose of this 90% of the task which is done?
No.
Right.
We if we can just simply retry this, and if it gets succeeded, then only 10% task have to be done.
Otherwise, if we ask client to retry again, our API hit again, our API again we will do the same
90% task again.
So redundant of the work is there, duplicate of the work is there and it will increase our cost and
it's not free of cost to be honest, right?
So with above understanding, we know that retry is important, right?
I think I hope this point will tell you that why retry is important?
Because we don't want to do the same task again.
Okay.
And I'm just saying this is just one client.
If there are hundred clients for this API and they are all invoking and there are thousands of calls,
so you are saying that you are doing lot of wasting your, uh, capacity on just duplicate tasks which
you have already completed.
So we know that retry is important.
But now question is when to retry.
How to retry.
Very very important question when to retry.
First of all is do not retry on permanent failures.
Permanent failures is like no matter how many times you will retry, it will always fail.
Like for Forex errors, so forex errors generally are in the category of validation error.
Validation error.
Validation error means the input request input request which client has passed has is not correct until
unless client will not change, the input validation error will not remove.
So if you retry with the same request previously again you will see a validation error.
So generally these are known as permanent failure.
For xx.
Do not retry if operation is non idempotent.
What does it mean.
So hydro patency makes sure that if request is retried multiple times duplicate processing will not
happen.
So say you have a service A which invokes the create API of service B okay.
So it has invoked it.
And while service B writes into its DB, but it takes certain time.
Okay.
And here it says that timeout happen and timeout happens.
So for service A the request has been timeout.
But service B internally inserted the row into the DB.
Now since this is a timeout and user has retried.
So this is a retried again.
Now here service B insert the row again Id2.
Earlier it was already inserted Id1.
Now it is Id2.
So here.
This is not my intention.
My intention was not to create a duplicate row for the same request.
Okay.
So we can say that this this API, the API of the service B, this create API is not impotent okay.
So that's why we say that do not retry if operation is not idempotent.
Otherwise you will end up in creating duplicate resources.
So if you don't know how to design APIs, I have already covered it into the high level design playlist.
Uh, in depth.
Like what are the challenges, how we can come up with the API design?
So have a look in case you have a doubt.
Okay, so but here one thing is we don't have to retry if operation is not repeated.
The third is that rule of thumb says that retry only on five error.
What five error says that it is system error.
Your input request.
Input request is good.
Okay, all validation passed, but there is some limitation in system or some issue happen in the system
because of that error has happened.
So generally these are considered as retrieval error.
Okay.
So it is safe to retry on this because this is first of all system error and also it says that it request
is not successful.
Means the previous request five access means request is not successful.
Okay, so that is also one.
Give us a you can say that uh relief that yeah previous request is not successful.
And we can retry as many times so there is no harm okay.
And five has already know that input request is correct.
No validation errors.
But there is some issue with the system.
So with retry it is possible that it might get resolved.
So that is one.
And another thing is retry network uh network error and timeout error.
We have to retry but only make sure that whatever the API it should support auto patency.
So this is a retry decision table.
Like based on HTTP code you can decide whether you have to retry or retry.
Not so.
These are not complete lists.
Just an idea.
Let's say 200 request is already success.
You don't have to retry like 400.
Bad request.
Unauthorized or forbidden 404 not found.
So these are you can say that validation error.
No matter how many times you will retry, you will always get retry failure uh, failure itself.
Right.
So you don't have to retry on this.
So 4 to 9 you can say that one of the exception like 4 to 9 means too many requests.
So it generally happens when the rate limiting.
So for that we can do retry with some delay.
Then we have uh 500 internal server error, 502 bad gateway 503 service unavailable.
These are like uh, you can say that retry issue like uh service unavailable.
Maybe it was down.
And if you retry, it might be up and it request can get succeeded.
So for all this we can do retry.
And if there is a network error timeouts you can always retry.
Yes.
But make sure that it should be independent.
Okay.
So this is just a quick glance that based on HTTP status code, you decide whether the retry can be
done or not.
Now how to retry.
So see this is very important part.
So let's see first types of retry and when.
And then we will see how to implement it also.
So first is fixed interval retry.
So what does fixed interval retry says that retry after a constant delay.
So within each retry the delay is constant.
So say that the attempt total attempt is four.
So when we say total attempt means original one call plus three retries, so total four.
Okay, so after original call there has to be a fixed delay.
Like let's say my fixed delay is two second.
So it would be like after two second first retry will happen.
Then it will wait for two second then second retry will happen.
Then it will wait for two second, then third retry will happen.
So there is a fixed interval of delay within the retries.
So let's say this is the original call which happened at two.
So first retry happen at four.
Then second retry will six third retry at eight.
So each one has two two seconds gap same.
So advantage of this is it is very very simple easy to configure and debug also.
But this is main disadvantage is that higher chance of retry storm which is also known as thundering
herd problem.
Thundering herd problem in, many clients retry at the same time, causing a surge of retry traffic
and system spent resources on retries instead of handling new requests.
So understand with this is that.
Say that you have a load balancer and you have, let's say component service a service a multiple instances
instance one, instance two, instance three, and load balancer distribute the traffic between the
instances of service a there are so many clients client one, client N and the traffic is also huge.
Now let's say that a buggy code has been introduced into the service a and it is.
Start throwing some exception and if client start doing retry also, since already it's a heavy traffic
and for that they are all started doing retry at a fixed delay.
So all are retrying.
So original request.
Let's say there are 1000 request original.
Now after two second delay.
Retry one will happen.
Okay.
So everyone will do retry 1000 requests again after two second delay.
Retry two.
They again do a retry okay.
So these are just retry traffic whatever the normal traffic new request is coming.
That is different.
So means your system is now get bombarded with retry traffic.
And it is possible that while you are only servicing retry traffic, you somehow decline the new request
which is coming.
That is also possible.
Okay, so I if you remember like in the playlist.
I have already covered Thundering Herd problem like it is one of the frequently asked interview question.
So if you want to know more about Thundering Herd problem, you can check it out.
But yeah, this is one of the disadvantage is that if all the clients retry at the same interval, it
is possible that the retry traffic become huge and it can cause thundering herd problem.
So fixed interval is clear.
Then we have exponential backoff.
So what does exponential backoff says.
That delay increases exponentially.
So currently earlier you are delaying at this time.
Then this time then this time not at fixed rate, not after two seconds.
This is two second not at fixed.
So it increases with the time.
And this is the formula for it.
So the formula says that you pick some base delay that.
Yeah.
Minimum base delay is my 100 millisecond into two raised to power.
This is the factor.
You can say that this is also configurable.
Factor raised to power number of failed retry attempt.
Okay.
So consider that total attempt is four means one original call and three retries.
And my base is 100.
So the formula says that the first retry will.
So let's say original call happen at uh zero zero millisecond say so first retry will happen at 100,
which is our base delay into.
And the factor which I have given is let's say this factor I have given is two for now two raised to
power.
Previous number of failed retry attempt.
Currently this is the first retry itself.
So zero retry attempt has failed.
So currently it is zero.
So this is first retry happen at.
So original call happen at zero millisecond.
First retrieve will happen at 100 millisecond.
Second retrieve will happen at 100.
Base into whatever the factor you have told.
Let's say I have told two raised to power.
Number of failed retry attempt.
So till now, only one retry attempt failed.
So it's one.
So retry will happen at 200 millisecond third retry will happen at 100 into two.
Raised to power.
Number of failed retry attempt two.
Till now two retry has been done.
So two ratio of two.
400 millisecond.
So now here if you see the delay, time is exponentially increases.
100 200 400.
Next you will see 800 like this.
So advantage is that it reduces the load on downstream service during outage.
Let's say that this service become.
This service become down if we increase the delay.
They also get some breathing time to recover it.
Unnecessary if you put the load of the retry also plus the original request.
Also the it might take some more time to recover for the component, and it also helps to avoid thundering
herd problem to some extent, right?
Since they are not retrying at a constant time its delays.
So thundering herd problem.
You can say that uh, to some extent it reduces, but does it reduce fully?
No.
There is still a risk of thundering herd because see, this is the formula.
What if your base is my base?
All the clients select the same base and same factor.
Then they will retry at the same time itself.
So there is because there is no randomness, right.
So there is still a chance of thundering herd problem.
And also if outage period is short, user might wait create some longer time.
So let's say that this shortage is resolved at 500 milliseconds after 500 milliseconds.
This outage was resolved, but after 400 milliseconds the delay was 800.
Only after that it will retry.
So there is.
Even though the issue was resolved, it still added some latency.
Right.
The outage period is short.
User might wait longer than needed.
So this is one of the disadvantage.
So there is one.
Another version of it is like exponential backoff plus jitter.
Jitter means some randomness similar to exponential backoff.
But add jitter or randomness to delay or to.
You can say that to avoid retry stomps.
Now see exponential backoff already.
Uh, increases the delay time exponentially, right?
But only thing which missing is randomness.
So this jitterness helps to retry reduce the retry storms.
So this is its formula.
We have to choose a random number.
Between random between.
Zero comma.
Minimum of maximum delay.
What?
What is the maximum delay we can have?
Let's say no exponential.
Back off.
So it's not like let's say you have for example I'm just saying you have 100 retry.
So it's not like it continuously increases the time and all.
No there should always be limit right after a limit.
This is the maximum wait time.
Let's say uh five seconds is the maximum delay time.
More than that you can't go increase if you more than increase if you're with the formula.
If it gives you the value of more than five seconds, always use five seconds.
So this is the max limit.
So here is the same random.
You have to choose a random between zero comma minimum of the maximum delay or.
This is our exponential backoff formula.
Okay.
So now we have bring some randomness.
So again random between zero comma minimum of maximum delay which we can wait comma your exponential
backoff formula one.
So between this it.
Now pick some delay value.
And now since this is random you can say that uh it spread the retries over time.
Reduce peak load and thundering herd issue is happening of this issue become very less because of this
randomness.
The disadvantage is it's not easy to debug and it's little complex.
And the last type of retry is custom interval.
Like you define your own retry logic.
Hey I want retry to be like 11235 like this.
Okay.
So first retry should wait for one one millisecond, then another one millisecond, then two millisecond,
then three millisecond, then five, then eight.
Like this.
So you can define your own custom logic how you want to do a retry.
That is also possible.
So we have full control and flexibility.
But disadvantages you have to maintain you have to maintain it.
So you have to write the logic.
You have to maintain it.
The framework will not help you in this.
We will see that.
So first let's see the implementation of fixed interval.
How you can do that.
This is same controller.
Troller.
This is faint.
Client interface controller is invoking the order service invoke product API.
This service is invoking.
Now here.
If you see, I have put at the rate retry comp annotation on top of this method.
One thing remember is always use retry on top of method.
The logic which you want to retry.
So I only want to retry this.
My downstream call.
Let's say if you have some lot of business logic here, everything will get retry.
If you have a DB call that will also get retry.
So please double check.
Double verify where you are putting this retry.
What logic are there inside that method because that will get executed.
Okay, so I have used at the retry annotation give it a name fallback method.
Like after all the retry got failed.
Ultimately this fallback method will get invoked.
Okay.
Now in the application dot properties here, if you see I have defined the configuration resilience
for retry instances product service.
This is the name I have given.
Maximum attempt is three and resilience for retry instances.
Product service wait duration is two second.
So now here if you see that I haven't told which type to use, whether it has to use fixed delay, exponential
backoff or with Jitterness because by default it is fixed interval by default, which resilience for
j uses retries fixed interval okay.
And maximum attempt we have defined is three and wait duration is two seconds.
So it will wait 2 to 2 two seconds.
Now you can you can easily test it.
If you want to test it, you can easily test it that uh, so here in this one I have just put uh try
catch block.
And in the catch I have put not able to invoke product API.
So I'm invoking the product API right.
I haven't started it server itself, I haven't started server.
So definitely it will fail.
Not able to invoke product.
So I have just put this not able to invoke product.
And let's see that how many times it will retry it.
So if you see this what is the configuration.
We have put three mean one original call and two retry.
So if you see this first time this is the original call which happened at 2056.
Not able to invoke.
Then it wait for two seconds because this is the delay period we have defined into this wait duration
two seconds.
So it happened at 2056 12.
So two second delay first retry happen again failed after that second retry happened at two 5614.
Again two second delay, fixed interval delay, not able to invoke and all the retries finished.
And then it says that product service is busy.
This is our fallback method.
Make sense.
And this thing.
I already told you that this thing you can have multiple milliseconds, seconds, minute.
You can even go 500 milliseconds.
So in that also millisecond also you can set the values.
Now how internally this might be working.
So see here.
As we already know Resilience Forge totally relies on AOP.
And AOP generates the proxy code.
Right.
It generates right the code.
So for this retry what code it might have written.
So see this is the code it AOP might have written I am not sure, but AOP because generate the code
during runtime you can't are debugging is difficult on that runtime code generation part.
But this is the framework which retry uses it.
So it has multiple parts.
So consider as three part.
First part is interval function.
Second is retry config.
Third is retry object.
So retry function is the function where your delay logic resides.
If you open this class retry interval function you will see so many functions.
You will see so many methods one is off and you have just wait time.
So that is for fixed delay.
Then there is something called exponential back off off.
So that is for exponential backoff.
Ah retry.
So for certain it's already written.
We don't have to have written this formula by ourself.
So inside interval function class if you go you will find different methods.
One method for exponential backoff one method for uh fixed delay.
One method for jitterness.
And they have their logic how to compute the delay.
Next delay.
So that is first thing.
So we have to have one interval function method where we write our delay logic.
Generally this would be we have to implement it only in case we have to write for custom logic.
But in case if you are using already present one, then we just need to call that which method internally.
Then second is retry config.
Like.
Here we set the configurations like uh attempt attempt number equals to four.
Then wait time something something.
So all the configurations generally we will put it here and then is retry object.
From this config a retry object is created which will be used to do the retry we.
So if you see that we don't have to do anything we just do this AOP writes the code.
What I am saying is what AOP how AOP might be doing this or computing this code.
So now this is the part.
So first it is creating retry config dot custom.
It is setting the configuration.
Let's say max attempt was four.
That's what we have defined here right in the configuration max attempt 345.
Like these are the configuration my mean right.
So you can say max attempt for interval function which interval function you have to call.
So let's say I am using fixed interval okay.
So it will call this method.
Interval function dot off.
So I have defined delay is two seconds.
So this method takes interval function dot of two seconds.
It is in milliseconds.
Generally it takes okay.
Then on what.
All exceptions you have to retry.
On what all exceptions you have to retry.
You can add it here also.
Okay.
And finally you do build.
So you got the retry config.
And from that retry config retry dot off you can create an object of retry.
Just give whatever the name you wanted to give your retry and this config.
So it will create an object from this config retry config.
Okay.
So first thing is the interval function method which has to be invoked.
So how AOP knows that which one by default is In the configuration by default is fixed interval, and
we haven't tell anything explicitly that we want that.
So by default it take fixed interval one configuration we have already provided.
What is the max atom and what is the wait time okay.
And even the retry.
What on on what on exceptions.
You want to retry right.
That also we can define in the config.
So this is how internally it might be doing it.
So let's see exponential back off.
So all same only configuration changes.
See this code.
We don't have to write.
This will return by AOP.
So this is just for understanding purpose.
What AOP might be doing it inside.
So this retry thing nothing changed.
So we still on whatever method you have to do a retry please double check on that.
You have to write this annotation.
The only thing change is that our Configuration.
So here if you see for exponential backoff these are the configuration we have to give.
So see if you go into the back of dot Java class this is the formula.
They have written the same thing what we have written right.
Initial wait time into whatever the factor two three raised to power.
Number of failed retry attempt.
So this is the formula they have written in their back of dot Java class.
Also this is a framework class.
You can check it.
So maximum attempt is four original plus three retry okay wait duration is first second.
So wait duration.
This is the initial wait time.
So one second is my initial wait time.
Enable exponential backoff.
True because this is not the default uh strategy for retry.
Right.
So that's why I'm explicitly saying hey enable the exponential backoff.
True.
What is the factor you want to use?
Exponential backoff multiplier is two.
I want two raise to power.
If you make it three, it would be like three raised to power.
Okay so this is this factor part.
So this is your formula gonna be.
So first retry after let's say original happen at zero.
Second the first retry will happen at initial is one second.
So let's say 1000 millisecond into what is the factor.
We told two raised to power number of failed retry time currently is zero.
So after first second the first retry will happen, second will happen.
And after two second third will happen at four second.
Like this.
So actually we are going with zero in the formula.
They have just says that iteration minus one.
So retry iteration generally.
So currently it is the first retry.
So that's why it started with zero.
No retry has failed failure till now.
The same thing.
Different way to understand like how you can remember it.
So let's analyze the output here.
If you see that, what is the maximum attempt we have told for means one original and three retry.
So if you see that original call happen at 21, 2240, then it does the first retry at 21, 2241, one
second delay.
After that it do a second retry at 43 two second delay, then the third retry 47 four second delay.
And since all the attempts finish four attempt finish our fallback method executed.
Okay, so this is how exponential backoff works.
And if you see the AOP generated code you actually you can't see if you just try to analyze it again.
The three part first is interval function.
We have to tell.
So internally since we have made this true.
X enable exponential backoff Backup now.
AOP might be adding this method of interval function.
Exponential.
Not random.
There is another method.
So this is we are not using jitter one right.
So this would be like off exponential backoff.
There is one more flavor of exponential random backoff which is for the third jitter one.
Okay.
But but I think you got it.
Like based on the what we tell in the configuration explicitly, that method would be invoke.
So this is the place where the actual delay logic is computed.
Then retry config where we have like what is the maximum attempt.
What is the retry on the exceptions you have to do retry.
And from this config you have to create and retry object.
This is again just for our understanding.
You can't debug that code.
It it is generated by AOP dynamically at runtime.
Similarly for exponential backoff plus jitter.
No change.
You have to use the same annotation at the rate retry.
No difference in that only differs in the configuration.
And you know that everything else is exactly same as exponential backoff, but only thing is unable
randomized.
Wait.
That's all.
Some random thing has been added.
We just have to enable that.
Hey use random.
So now here it will use this random backoff method for computation.
Okay then we have custom retry.
Now this is interesting part.
Now we have to retry right.
So first thing first we can't use at the retry annotation now because when we use at the retry what
generally happen is our AOP depends upon configuration to construct the to create a retry object.
But now since there is no configuration right?
We can't use this annotation.
That will not work.
So one thing is we have to manually create retry object.
Now our understanding of that will come into this picture.
So here what I am doing now.
So here if you see that in the at the right configuration I have written a method custom retry.
I am creating a bean.
I'm creating an object of retry.
So this is we know that AOP might be doing it.
And the same thing I am doing.
The first thing is interval function.
So we have to provide a function method which where the delay computation would be calculated.
So here is Fibonacci interval.
So here earlier I what I did is like I have like I want to run it like one one then two, then three
then five like this.
So first retry happen at one another.
Retry happen at one.
Uh, the third retry happen after two seconds.
Uh, then three.
Then like this in Fibonacci way, the delay increases.
But for simplification purpose you can have all this logic here.
This is just for demo purpose that different logic you can build.
But here I am just for simplification purpose.
I am just returning.
What is the delay time it return right for each run.
For each retry we have to compute the delay time right?
What is the next delay time?
What is the next delay time.
So this method returns the duration.
Like wait for this much second milliseconds.
Wait for this much duration okay, so let's say that Fibonacci interval.
You have the logic all here and it returned milliseconds later.
Let's say it returned this one.
Two millisecond.
It has to wait.
Okay.
So this generally method do the computation again and return.
What time.
Retry.
What has to let's say if it is third retry.
If it is third retry.
So retry one retry two retry three.
Then it will return two seconds 2000 milliseconds.
Got it.
So we have to write this method now.
And this is what first thing I have done.
So attempt for each attempt.
So let's say if you have four attempt for each attempt it compute the duration delay time.
The second thing is same retry config max attempt.
You have to now tell it here.
There is no configuration application.properties you have to tell it here.
Retry exception.
What all do you have to do?
Retry you.
You don't have to define an application or properties.
You have to define it here.
Dot build your config object is created and from that you create a retry object.
So now we have created the retry object.
Now we have to use it.
How to use it now.
Now in the order service on this product API we can't do annotation right at the retry.
We can't do that.
So we have to do this way.
And that's what internally AOP might be doing that also.
So first it has created a retry object like this.
What we have done.
And then it would have in the similar way it might have done the same way.
So it auto wired the custom retry object, the retry object which we have created, the bean which we
have created.
So here dependency injection will happen.
Then it has executes supplier.
Okay.
So we are wrapping.
What we are doing is we are wrapping an object.
So this is I want to retry.
This is my retry code I am wrapping it inside this retry dot.
Retry I'm wrapping wrapping it up within this retry.
Because annotation will not work I have to do it manually.
So this is my piece of code which I want to retry in case of failure.
Now I have to manually wrap it inside the custom retry dot execute supplier.
Okay, now let's say that you have you have invoked it.
There is a failure.
So it will automatically retry it okay.
Because it is inside the retry object right.
For each retry we have done, attempt right for each retry it.
Find out the delay.
It has to wait based on the logic you have written, it will find out what is the delay time it has
to wait.
And after waiting for that much time right, it will execute again.
Based on this configuration, if that exception is retrievable and if attempt is still left, if all
the attempt is finished, then ultimately this catch block will get invoked.
All retries failed.
This is the fallback.
So by writing this custom retry by ourself, we get to know that what AOP might be doing inside.
So you can say that this is the exact AOP code which might they have done during runtime.
First they have created a retry object.
And then for that retry object they have rapid the method which we have written right at the rate retry
before they wrap those method inside this custom retry dot Execute supplier.
Okay.
And after all retry finish in the cache part it might have run our fallback method.
And we can check our output also.
So we have done six attempts right one original five retry.
So we can say so what is our uh code which have to be retried.
One is system dot dot dot println calling product service and that time.
And then actually it's called it.
So these two things will get thing so original happen at this calling product service.
And then it will try to call it so it happen at 20 to 3545.
Then here if you see 47 4950 122 second delay, why two two second delay?
Because currently I have hard coded it to 2000 millisecond here.
If you can see I have hard coded it to 2000 milliseconds.
That's why.
But if you have written your own interval that if it is a retry one one, retry two again one if it
is retry three two seconds.
If it is retry four three retry fifth.
Like this.
Then eight.
Like this.
It should go, then 13, so then it will change it.
But for now since I have hardcoded it.
So for each retry attempt when it tried to compute what is the duration I have to wait, it will always
return to two seconds itself.
So that is why it is waited two seconds.
So 1234566 attempt finished.
Then it reached to the else part.
Fallback.
Here all retries failed.
This is fallback.
All retries failed.
This is fallback.
I hope got it right because to be honest, at least in this ten years I haven't Return.
Custom retry.
Generally, exponential backoff with jitter is sufficient, right?
With little work on these values.
But if you have to write it this way, you can write it.
Or if you have to understand like how this with just putting annotation with just putting this annotation,
this one how internally everything work by AOP, then it is exactly same as what custom we have written.
Create an object of retry.
Define what is the method you have to use interval function for computation and then ultimately wrap
your method inside this retry object.
Okay, so let me know if there is any doubt we can discuss further into the comment section, but till
then, bye.

--- Circuit Breaker ---

Hey guys, and welcome back to the channel.
And till now, in the fault tolerant microservices we have seen rate limiter bulkhead retry.
And today we will see a circuit breaker.
So let's start without wasting any time.
What does Circuit Breaker says?
This pattern prevents an application to make repeated calls to downstream service that is likely to
fail.
Okay, so we'll come to this line again.
But see this diagram.
So let's say our application is order service right.
And we and this product is a downstream.
So order is invoking product for.
Now assume that this product service is unavailable.
So no matter how many times you call this call will fail.
Right.
So product service is down no matter how many times whether you are doing retry of the same call or
whether you are making a totally different call, it will fail.
So there is some disadvantages for it.
The first disadvantage is we put unnecessarily add load to the product service and because of that product
service might take longer time to recover.
So see product services already unavailable right.
It is facing some issue and we are adding more load to it.
So there is a chance that product service might take little longer time to, uh, come up in the healthy
state.
The second is order services unnecessarily wasting its resources, both latency and the thread blocking.
So just see that if, let's say there are thousands and thousands of calls and product service is unavailable,
they all will fail.
So Order service is unnecessarily wasting its resource because there is a latency involved.
It calls it.
It waits for the product service to response till timeout, and then only it will send to the client
that hey, it's a fail some five secs error something.
Okay.
So there is definitely increase in latency and you are unnecessarily blocking your thread on this call
okay.
So there is no need because even if you wait it, the call is likely going to fail because the product
service is unavailable.
But now what is the solution?
How does Order Service know when to stop the downstream call?
Like we are saying that hey order don't make unnecessarily call to product because it is unavailable,
right?
But how?
Order knows that when it is unavailable, when it is up and when I have okay if it is unavailable,
when again I have to restart.
So something has to instruct this up.
You can say that knowledge somebody has to put this knowledge to order right.
Then only order would be able to stop or restart the call.
So who at that knowledge that is circuit breaker.
Okay.
So again revisiting the line which we went ahead in the first place, it prevents an application to
make repeated calls to downstream service that is likely to fail.
So see this diagram now.
So now order service let's say make initial calls.
And both got failed.
So now we will put some threshold value that hey if this many calls get failed means there is some issue
with the product.
So don't make any further calls to it.
So now after that, once that threshold limit is reached, we will stop the future call to product.
So now all future calls.
There is no hit to the product.
We will fail the call immediately.
We will not block the thread.
We will fail the call immediately.
Okay?
And we will wait for some time.
After that we will check if product service is healthy or not so it will do a trial testing after some
time.
Hey, it will send some sample or you can say that the test calls hey is product service is responding
properly or not.
If yes then only it will allow future calls to the product.
Okay, so whatever we have covered here it is can be understand.
It can be understood through this state diagram.
So start from here.
This is the initial state.
Okay.
So for any application the best case is closed.
Closed means that all calls are allowed to downstream service means everything is going good.
Okay.
Circuit is closed.
Means just remember always sometime, many times engineers get confused that hey, circuit is closed.
Means no calls.
No.
So see, consider this as a circuit.
So when the circuit is closed, then only electricity will flow.
When the circuit is open, then electricity current will break.
Understand?
It is just to remember this.
So when the circuit is closed, all calls are allowed to downstream service.
Now if failure limit cross the threshold.
let's say five failure, six failure, whatever the threshold we will set if that many failures.
So see, there could be some success, there could be some failure while making a call to downstream.
But if the failure limit threshold value is crossed, then it moved from closed state to open state.
Now, open state means no calls allowed to downstream service and fail the call immediately.
So after this it wait for certain time, which is like you can say that timeout period.
After that let say it could be ten second, five second, 15 second, that hey, for five second or
ten second, no call is allowed.
After that it moved to half open state.
Half open state says that allow only limited number of test calls to downstream Stream and track their
success rate.
Say, I said that.
Hey!
Allowed only three calls.
Allowed only five calls.
So very limited number of calls.
We will send it to the downstream and then track their success rate.
If the success rate is 100% then circuit can be closed again.
But if the success rate is not 100%.
The state goes back to open.
Okay, so whatever we have seen this can be easily represented through this state of circuit breaker.
Okay.
And let's see its implementation.
It's very easy.
So we have already seen that we don't need a individual dependency of circuit breaker.
It's all come with the resilience forge itself.
So we already have that dependency added as part of previous uh retry and all.
So this pom.xml we need to add this resilience for dependency.
This is the same no change.
It's just a controller class to expose an API through which we can invoke this order service method.
And this is the feign client.
Like no change.
It's like we are using Eureka server.
So that's why I haven't provided any URL.
Right.
So that's already we have seen in the previous one.
So there is no change here.
Now in the order service we have a method right.
It is invoking the order service method invoke product API.
So this is actually where I am invoking the downstream product.
So now at top of it I have put this circuit breaker.
So I have given it a name.
This is the name product service.
And this is the fallback method.
So this is the fallback method.
Remember that this fallback method always get invoked for each failure attempt.
Okay, so whenever you are not able to invoke this product service, this fallback method gets invoked.
Okay.
So this is one thing we have to add a circuit breaker annotation.
And this is the configuration we have to add in application dot properties.
So this is very important to understand this configuration uh properly that why we need this many.
So the first thing is resilience for circuit breaker dot instance.
This is the name we have given product service.
Now see the first one is sliding window type and the second one is sliding window size.
So both are associated.
So here if you see that when you are choosing the count based as the window type and the size.
What does it mean is it will track the n number of recent call.
So here it will track the ten recent calls.
And based on that it will find out whether there is any failure or not.
So this is helpful when you are currently in a closed state.
So when you are in a closed state and means all calls are allowed, and you have to identify whether
a threshold has been crossed or not.
Okay.
So there should be some window on which some request comes which could be success, which could be failure,
which could be success, which could be failure.
Right.
So this window size is this okay.
So window size is this.
And I am using count base.
So count base means ten calls.
So use the last ten calls okay.
There.
Another is time based.
So it's not called then ten second in ten second.
What?
How?
Whatever the call, it could be ten.
20.
100.
Doesn't matter now.
It's a time base.
So it's a time base.
What is the size?
Ten second.
So in ten second, whatever the call is there.
Right.
Some call could be success.
Some call could be failure.
Now, based on that, we will find out whether the threshold has been crossed or not.
So first we have to determine the window.
So this is helping us to determine our window.
Okay.
Never get confused it with like uh rate limiter sliding windows and.
All right it is totally different.
This is count based means when we are giving a ten so means ten calls.
Last ten calls.
We have to consider.
And based on that we will find out a threshold value okay.
So first two is clear.
Then is minimum number of calls.
So minimum number of calls.
So see why we required is let's say uh we have only two calls let's say count based.
And the window size you have given two say suppose or even if you are using time based ten second in
the ten second you only got two calls.
And your threshold is let's say 50% of the traffic is fail, then consider it as a failure.
But here when there is only two calls and what does 50% means?
Only one.
Even if there is one failure.
Now you will consider that hey, product service is down.
Is it?
Is it not a false positive, right?
It's a false alarm.
Only one request fails.
It could be because of like, uh, if you retry, it might pass.
Okay.
So when the number is very low, then there is a chance that there is a false positive.
Okay.
So that's why minimum number of calls says that hey, when this number of calls reach, then only start
evaluating the failure rate okay.
So minimum at least this many calls should be present.
Then only after that start evaluating the failure okay.
Then another is failure rate threshold.
This is percentage.
So circuit moves to open state once the threshold limit reaches.
So if 50% of the traffic is the failure in a window in this window, in this window, if 50% of the
traffic failed then it moved from close to open state.
Then another is wait duration in open state.
So once the circuit moves to open state, how much time it has to wait, okay.
Before it moved to half open.
So ten second, it has to stay in the open state before it moves to half open state.
Now, once the circuit moves to the half open state then it has to try some calls.
Okay.
How many.
So I have told three calls.
So permitted number of calls in half.
Open state three.
So means it will call three times.
It will allow three calls to go to the downstream.
And then it will evaluate the success rate okay.
So these are all the configurations uh which is important.
And we will see with an uh output also that would be little bit more clear.
And also this is also important that by default circuit breaker record, all runtime exception and error
as a failure if you don't specify anything.
All runtime exception and error it will track, but if you want this control in your hand, you can
use this two configuration.
One is record exception.
Another is ignore exception.
So it's a comma separated value.
You can give that what all the exception.
You only have to track okay.
And what all exceptions you have to ignore.
So this way you can have more control over it.
Otherwise if you don't give it it will take care of all the runtime exceptions and error.
Okay, so this is the very minimal code you required for the circuit breaker to work okay.
Only configurations.
And this circuit breaker annotation.
Now with this configuration just check this output okay.
So we can also run it in the IntelliJ.
But here we'll show you once.
Then I will run in IntelliJ.
So first time I hit.
So this is the first call I made.
What I did is order service is calling the product service and the product server.
I haven't started it.
So no matter how many times order will try to invoke product, it will always fail.
So that's the use case I am going to test now with the above configurations.
So let me zoom it a bit.
So I made a first hit.
I try to invoke this endpoint this endpoint.
So this endpoint it will invoke this method invoke product API.
Invoke product API will call get product by ID.
But the product server itself I haven't started it, so definitely it will fail.
Okay, so it tried first time.
See it reached till it tried to hit it.
Tried to find an instance of a product service, but since it is not a load balancer, not able to find
the instance.
So first call I made, it got failed and it print this fallback method System.out.println which I am
printing.
Now what is the how many is the failure count?
One.
What is the minimum count we have sent?
Minimum call should be five.
Till that don't even start counting the failure.
The window size we have is ten.
Threshold is 50.
So 50 of a window size means five.
Failure is the threshold.
Once the five failure has been reached in a window, it will move to the open state.
But till now, failure is only one.
Then I make a second call.
Second call is also failed.
Failure count is now two, but minimum is five.
Window is ten, threshold is five.
Third call is also failed.
Again no issues.
It is still in closed state.
It is actually hitting try to hit the downstream but failure count is three.
Minimum call is five, window size is ten.
Threshold is 50% of window size.
That is five.
Fourth call is again it.
Try to go to the downstream fifth call.
So now what if you see that fifth call is also failed.
So here if you see not able to invoke the product service.
So it also try to hit the downstream fifth.
Now the failure count is five.
Now here if you see the minimum call now it is matched.
So now the minimum call is matched.
Now it will see.
Hey in this window minus count based right ten.
So its threshold was 50%.
So five failure.
If there is a five failure then it would be considered as like a threshold cross.
So my failure count is five and the threshold is five and the window size is ten.
Okay.
So in the last within last ten calls.
So till till now the first five call itself got failed.
So it's within a window and threshold is crossed.
So see now it moved from close to open state.
It change circuit breaker.
Change the state.
And here after ten second we have configured that right.
What is the wait time in the open ten second we have configured that.
So here if you see after ten second from 20 now after ten second 30 it automatically changed from open
to half open.
So how automatically after a specific time it automatically changed from open to half open.
I will tell you later in this video itself.
Okay.
So here if you see like after exactly 10s whatever we have configured, the status changed from open
to half open.
Now after that I again.
So in half open how many permitted calls we have given.
Three.
So now I made a first trial call okay.
So this is the maximum trial call we have set is three.
So first trial call is also failed.
But it tried to invoke the load balancer.
So means it is tried to invoke the downstream.
The second call also it tried to invoke the downstream but that is also failed.
The third trial also it got failed where it tried to invoke the downstream.
But now our limit is reached the third.
So from half open it will go back to open again because all three failed success rate is zero.
Okay, so only in case of 100% success rate it moved back to closed.
Close.
Okay.
So it goes from half open to open.
Because success rate is not 100%.
So here if you see the we all know that resilience for J uses AOP.
We till now we have seen.
So AOP intercept this at the rate circuit breaker uh annotation.
And it passed to this class circuit breaker state machine dot Java.
This is a framework which is available in resilience for J.
So open this class.
Check it out.
So this is just one sample method in this class okay.
So here if you see that depending upon which state you are at.
So let's say currently I am at closed state okay.
At closed state you are making one call to downstream and if any error comes so this method gets invoked.
So for every error every exception it check does it exceed the threshold?
Okay.
If it exceeds the threshold, yes.
And it is closed state.
Move to open now.
So if yes, threshold exceeded and it is enclosed then move to open.
So for every failure it checks this kind of method right.
And based on particular state it moves to another state.
So open this class.
Put a debugger point.
You can check it out.
And you will get to know that how it move from one state to another.
But one question might be coming to you.
Right?
Okay.
For every failure call, we are checking if state need to be changed or not.
That makes sense, right?
I make a call, got failed.
I am tracking what is the threshold value.
I do computation and if the threshold crossed I change the state from close to open, right?
And even from half open if I am at half open.
If the trial all trial, I make a call.
And based on that, I will evaluate if at all 100% I will go back to closed or half open or open.
But one open question is when my state is in currently open, then how?
After a specific weight, let's say ten second, it automatically moves to half open state.
How?
How does it change from open to half open.
Okay.
So the answer is it uses scheduled thread pool executor.
So if you see the circuit breaker state machine Java itself the same class there you will find an open
state method.
So method for open state.
So in that you will see.
Okay so schedule thread pool executor.
It schedule a task means it will submit a task to a scheduler to this executor.
And this is the task it submit.
What is the task it is submitting to.
Half open state means transition from open to half open.
After what time?
This is the delay.
Wait duration.
Let's say ten.
It time unit is in milliseconds.
Let's say after ten millisecond change from open to half open.
So this is the task which need to be run after this much time.
So schedule thread pool executor.
With the usage of this schedule thread pool executor, we can change or we can perform certain tasks
after a particular delay.
And I have already explained the schedule thread pool executor in the Java playlist.
You can check it out how to use it, but in interview a one level more deep information is useful because
interviewer can ask okay with the usage of schedule thread pool executor I can perform this task, but
how this internally works.
How does schedule thread pool executor works?
So schedule thread pool executor actually make use of delayed queue.
So consider this as a queue where whenever we put schedule right.
So here I am putting dot schedule schedule executor service dot schedule.
So this task is now handed over to this queue Q which is known as delete.
Q so the task with the minimum delay is always at the head.
Minimum delay means the task which will get expired first.
Like, uh, this task will run after one second.
This task will run.
Task two will get run after.
Uh 10s.
So you can say that the task which is going to run very next is always at the head.
Okay.
So which data structure we can use to implement this delete queue is priority queue.
We can make use of priority queue and sort based on this minimum delay time.
Whichever task has the very minimum delay time it should be at the head.
Because this delay is going to expire early so that this task would be ready to get executed first.
Okay, so one thing is delete queue.
Q another thing is we have a worker thread.
We have a worker thread.
So whenever the schedule thread pool executor, we are creating an object of this one.
We also tell how many worker thread we wanted which will work on this executor.
Okay.
So now what happens is let's say assume that in this delayed queue this is our task one which has,
let's say ten second still time remaining before it delay gets expired and the task one is ready to
get executed.
Now let's say thread one.
Look at the head.
Hey, can I pick this task?
Are you ready?
Okay, so each worker thread will look at the head of the delayed queue if the task delay is not yet
expired.
So there is still ten second 10s left.
Okay.
It should not be executed now.
Then what?
This thread will do.
This thread will go in a block state.
Okay then thread will wait.
Go into block state.
For how much time?
For the same amount of time.
So it will check.
Okay.
This task will ready after 10s.
So let me also block for 10s.
It will go in a wait state for 10s.
After the 10s the OS wake up the thread OS wake up the thread after this ten second after this.
So this whatever the delay is remaining right for the same remaining delay time, this thread will go
into the wait state, block state and OS will wake it up after that much time and after that much time,
this thread will also be ready.
This task is also ready to get executed.
Okay, so this thread now will go and pick the task from the head and start executing it now.
Other thread will start looking at the next task in the delete queue.
There could be multiple tasks.
Task two.
Task three.
Task four.
So now other threads will start looking at the next task which is present into the queue.
If that task is not yet ready, then thread will again get blocked.
Okay, so it is possible that multiple threads which are available is looking at the head and all.
Let's say thread one, thread two, thread three.
All are looking at this head.
Task one which has 10s to still delay time is present.
So multiple thread look that hey, can I pick the task because all threads are available.
They have to look at the queue to see if any task is present, so that they can pick it up.
So now this task has still 10s delay time present.
So what this thread will do.
This thread can't do anything.
Okay, so they all goes to wait.
And I told you that.
How much time?
The same amount of time.
The remaining delay time.
They will all goes to wait or block state.
Then OS will invoke it.
And out of that only one will go and pick this task.
So you can say that that is your, uh, lock.
One of the tasks, one of the thread will use the lock and pick this task, and then remaining thread
will now start looking at the next item present into the delete queue.
If that task is still not ready, then again those thread will wait for the remaining delay time And
it will be in the wait state till the task is ready.
I hope if interviewer asked you about how there is a very similar question.
Also, you can say that the WhatsApp message, the WhatsApp message get automatically deleted after
24 hours.
Let's say how how you will implement it.
So nothing but this delete queue only.
Okay, so there are many big companies like you can say that uh delayed queues frameworks are available,
right?
And we can easily implement this feature using delete queue.
So this is very popular interview questions like how you will implement the disappearing message feature
through delete queue.
Easy.
Okay guys.
So if you have any doubt let me know in the comment section we can discuss further.
Okay, bye.


--- ApiGateway in Microservices - Part1 - Routing and Load Balancing ---

Hey guys share on this side.

Welcome back to the channel.

And today we are going to cover one of the very important topic of microservice that is API gateway.

So let's start without wasting any time.

So what this feature provides, it provides a single entry point to access all microservice.

So let's say you have one client.

And if you are working in a product based company or any company, you know that there is not like only

one client, there might be hundreds of clients.

Okay.

And you have multiple microservices like invoice microservice, order, microservice, sales, microservice.

And also there are hundreds of microservices in a very big companies.

Okay.

So what happen is API gateway provide a single entry point.

So API gateway sit between your client and your microservices and all the calls passed through this

API gateway so your client never directly talk with your microservice.

All the clients call pass through the API gateway.

So that's what it means.

Single entry point.

Okay.

And why this exact position of API gateway make it so important.

Because a lot of benefits get added.

So one of the important benefit is routing means it forward request to right microservice.

So assume this that client just invoking hey invoke this API.

Now client doesn't need to know about all 100 microservices right.

It doesn't have to configure that.

Hey for invoice this is the host and this is the port for order.

This is the host and this is the port.

So it doesn't need to maintain that all different clients, all hundred clients all need to maintain

that okay.

This is my source of truth.

API gateway.

Only one server internally server does the routing.

Okay.

Your client.

You want to hit slash API.

Slash invoice.

Pass the request to the invoice.

Microservice.

Pass the request to the order.

Microservice pass the request to the sales microservice respectively.

Another is load balancing.

Okay.

So even you have multiple instances of invoice microservice.

So API gateway can also take care of load balancing so that when it forward the request to the particular

microservice, it is according to the properly load balancing algorithm.

Authentication like JWT.

So whenever any request comes in, API gateway also have the capability to do authentication.

So no need to have authentication here.

Authentication in order service authentication is self service.

You don't need code Duplicacy okay.

So we can put the authentication logic at the API gateway gateway itself.

Okay.

So because it is act as a first entry point, then your rate limiting like we can put a rate limit here

like on each microservices itself.

So API gateway also provide that feature because API gateway is the one which will always forward the

request to a particular microservice.

Right.

So we can put a rate limit here itself.

Okay.

So that we can avoid flooding our microservice.

So we will stop the traffic at the front gate itself.

Resilience circuit breaker retry all these features API gateway is capable of request response transformation.

So what the request is coming, it can do some transformation.

And whatever the response we are returning from the microservice API gateway intercepted do some changes

and then can return to the client.

That is also possible Monitoring and logging.

So for each request which is coming, we can put a centralized log here also.

That is also possible.

So we will see everything like how we can achieve this through Microsoft API gateway.

Okay.

So first thing first routing forward request to a right microservice.

So assume this I have already explained.

So we can have multiple clients.

We can have multiple microservices all running on different ports okay.

So and it is possible that in future one microservice is divided into multiple or multiple microservices

merged together.

So this is keep on going.

In a world of microservices this is keep on going.

You can add new microservice or even for one microservice.

If this becomes huge it breaks into smaller, smaller microservices further.

So if clients are directly interacting with the microservices and if there is any change, then all

clients need to update the routing logic.

Okay, now let's say that in this example order microservices is gone.

It's merged with your sale microservice.

Now this microservices order and sale microservice.

So all this hundred clients need to update their routing logic earlier.

They whatever the traffic they are passing it to here.

Now they have to pass it to this one.

So it impact is huge.

And because of that the decision of creation merging is not easy.

But with API gateway in mid, the clients are not even bothered about it.

They only talked with API gateway.

Now only API gateway.

We need to update the routing logic.

Okay, if this is the API earlier it was passing to here, now it knows that it need to pass to this

new microservice.

Okay.

So only one application is changed, not hundreds.

Okay.

So let's implement this.

What we are going to implement.

So we are creating two microservice product microservice order microservice okay.

And we are going to create an API gateway service.

Now whenever any request comes.

So our client would be here postman from postman.

When we invoke slash product let's say slash ID one.

So API gateway should intercept it and decide okay any request which is starting with slash products

I need to forward it to product microservice.

And the second is let's say if client calls orders slash one something, now it intercept that any API

starts with slash order I need to pass it order microservice.

So this we have to implement it now.

So first thing products.

Product microservices you can go to spring initializer.

Okay just Java.

You can select the latest version Java 17 Java 21 whichever you want to work with.

And normal spring web normal application okay.

So once you've done that we can have one Rest controller where we are just exposed one endpoint slash

products slash ID like slash products slash one whatever the client will pass and it will just returning

fetch the product details with ID that's all.

Nothing else okay.

And we are running this application on port number 8082.

So our product setup is complete order.

Microservices is also very simple.

Create a new microservice.

Give it a name order like spring web.

just we need this dependency and just create a very basic controller slash order slash ID.

We will expose one endpoint and we will just print fetch the order details with ID this one, that's

all.

Nothing else.

And the port number on which we are running the order is 8081.

So this is also run.

It is running on 8081.

And this is on 8082.

So this is also set up completed.

Now we need to set up gateway.

So on the spring initializer you can choose Java Maven.

The version give the name API gateway Jar Java 17.

Whichever we are running now we have to choose this dependency reactive gateway.

Okay.

So what it will do is it will bring this dependency into our Pom.xml spring Cloud starter gateway.

So this dependency will get added.

Because of this when we add into spring initializer through UI.

So this is the first thing.

So now our dependency is present.

Now in application dot property of this project API gateway.

First thing is we are running it on port number 8083 okay.

Now we are adding the routing logic.

So I have added two routing logic.

Why two one is for product.

Another is for order okay.

And this is running on 8083 port number.

So let's add a product routing logic.

So see this one configuration is like spring dot cloud dot gateway route zero.

So it is like we can gateway is might be connecting to multiple microservices like product like order

like sales, like payment multiple.

So it's like root zero one.

It's like an array.

You can consider it as an array.

So root zero is for product.

Root one is for order.

Similarly if there are more root two is maybe for your sales then root four maybe you are for payment.

Likewise okay so root 0.id.

So this is any unique name we can provide.

So I am just giving product hyphen service.

You can give any name in this one okay.

The second is root zero dot uri.

So this is the URI for this microservices.

So let's say API gateway is forwarding to this microservice.

It is like running on localhost 8082.

So that's what I am passing it here http localhost 8082 where this microservice is running host and

port.

Now the third one is route zero.

Predicates zero.

So predicate is also an array.

There can be multiple predicates.

Okay.

So predicate zero.

Predicate one.

Predicate two.

There can be multiple predicates.

Also predicate considered as a filter.

Okay.

So the first filter which I am putting is path equals to slash products.

Slash star.

Star means any traffic which start with slash products.

I need to forward it to this path, this URL okay.

So you can have more you can add more predicates.

So let's say I am adding this spring dot cloud dot gateway dot route zero.

Route zero means this product one.

So route zero route zero this one.

So we are in the zero one we are adding for product service.

So route zero dot predicate one.

So predicate is also an array right.

And the zeroth one I added for path in the predicate one I added for method, so equals to method is

allowed only get post.

So now it will match any API which start with slash product, star, star or any API.

Start with this.

After this it we can have anything okay, but any API which start with slash products but it should

be get and post.

Then we will a route matching will success and it will pass to this URL.

Okay, so this is just an example.

But in the application dot properties I have only one predicate or one filter that is for path.

So whenever we will hit through our postman slash product slash let's say ID anything, it will pass

it to this product microservice no matter.

It's a get or put or post or delete because we have only one predicate, not many.

Similarly for order, you can also define.

First is now Spring Cloud Gateway route one.

So now one is over our order.

So you can give any unique ID then provide a URI.

What is the microservice order?

Microservice is located at your host and port number and the filters.

So route one which is for order and predicate zero.

Then you can have predicates one two.

Likewise.

So currently we have only one predicate which is based on path.

So path equals to any API which is start with orders then pass it to this URL.

So you can have like method.

So here we have like method.

Then also you can have header.

There are I think 4 or 5 are predicates.

We can use that.

But uh These are the most important use path and method.

Generally, method also is not heavily used.

Path is the one which is very frequently used, like if this path match, pass it to this specific service.

Okay, so we have added the routing.

And now let's start all the three servers.

So my product service is running on 8082.

My order service is running on 8081.

And my API gateway is running on 8083.

So now all three servers are restarted.

Now from the client which is now our postman.

I am not calling here.

If you see localhost 8083I am calling.

I am not calling product endpoint product is running on 18082.

But here, if you see, I am calling 8083.

I am hitting API gateway where my API gateway is running.

So now I pass slash products slash one.

So what it will do it will do a matching.

So any API started with slash products.

It will pass it to product endpoint and it will fetch the product details with ID one.

This is what the controller we have added.

Whereas the product with ID if it is an order it will pass it API gateway, pass it to proper order

service and it will able to invoke this endpoint.

Fetch the order details with ID.

So now here I am calling same API gateway endpoint.

8083.

Slash order slash one.

So it will properly forward the request to the order microservice.

Fetch the order details with Id1 so properly it invoked the order service.

Okay, so one thing you might be thinking hey, you have hardcoded the URI here, okay?

Means it will always forward the request to a particular microservice.

What if we have multiple instances of a microservice?

It's possible right?

So our second thing, second benefit of API gateway comes into the picture which is load balancer.

Okay.

So we can have multiple instances of product right.

So this is instance one.

Then we have instance two.

We can have instance three instance for multiple instances okay.

Now this API gateway should also perform load balancing.

So if you know we have already covered service discovery and the client side load balancer.

So that comes into the picture.

If you haven't seen these two videos uh I would highly recommend.

Kindly check this out, because in this one we have internally discussed how client side load balancer

works, how service discovery works.

Because now API gateway make use of this since there are multiple instances present.

That's where we need service discovery because now API gateway need to know that.

What are the instances present.

Let's say for product instance one is running on this host.

And this port instance two is running on this host this port okay.

Similarly for order these are the list host and port for each instances.

So who will provide this list service discovery.

Okay.

So that's why we need to integrate with service discovery.

And after this we have to do a load balancing.

And for that we will use spring load balancer.

Spring cloud load balancer which does client side load balancing framework is gonna same.

The internally API gateway itself use the same framework.

So internally whatever the internal framework we saw, right.

How the client side load balancer works, that gonna be same.

So no changing in that one.

So now product service.

Now we have to integrate with service discovery right.

So product service.

So now you know if you have seen the service discovery you know this is our server.

This is our client.

This is our client.

This is our client okay.

So the product service we have added as a Eureka client okay.

And in the application dot properties we have put the path of the Eureka.

So now with this one it will tell any instance of a product service is created.

It will register itself with the service discovery.

Also, we have already discussed that in the service discovery video.

Similarly, for the order we have make it in a client Eureka client and in the application dot properties.

We have provided a link for the Eureka service server.

Okay.

And we already have this controller same like previously we have.

So no change into that one.

So now this become my client.

Eureka client.

This is Eureka client Eureka server.

So this is our service discovery server.

So we have added a dependency Eureka server in the application dot properties.

We put the endpoint on which it is running 8761.

And we make it these two things false.

We have already shared in the service discovery video what its purpose.

So I'm not going to uh again going into that.

Uh, but if you see if you have any doubt with service discovery, I would highly recommend again,

check this out.

Okay so I created the service discovery server now API gateway.

So till now what I have done is I have set up my product service, I have set up my order microservice,

I have set up my Eureka server now API gateway, whatever I have now I need to make it client also Eureka

client.

So API gateway we already have this dependency spring cloud gateway starter gateway.

Now I added as a Eureka client dependency also okay.

And in application dot property we already have this route one for route zero for product route one

for order.

Now I have added the Eureka server.

On which server on which URI Eureka server is running.

Okay, so that is also done.

Now here if you see one difference is in the product route and order route in the URI instead of hard

coding the URI.

HTTP localhost 8082 and here 8081 something I put el colon and give the.

Service name which they have registered with the Eureka server.

Okay.

So they are registered with this order service product service.

With this name it will get registered to this service discovery.

Okay so I provided this name load balancer order hyphen service.

Now what it will do is internally it will make use of spring cloud load balancer.

Okay.

So it will fetch the instances.

So first it will fetch the instances from Service Discovery.

Now service discovery will give you the all the possible instances present for a product or order,

and after that it will perform load balancing algorithm and it will pick one.

It will pick one instance and call the particular instance.

So these two videos you can say that you need to know how the internals client side load balancer working

so that you can easily understand what I did here.

Okay.

So we have our API gateway is able to do load balancing also through Spring Cloud Load balancer.

All we need to do is integrate with the service discovery okay.

And we just enable the Spring Cloud Load balancer.

Through this it will intercept the request calls the service discovery first fetches the instance and

then do a load balancing algorithm and call one particular instance.

Okay.

So you can uh, so I will also share the repo with you.

Uh git link GitLab link with where we have all this code present.

Okay.

So I have an API gateway which is running which is running.

Then I have Eureka server okay.

So in Eureka Server we have it is running on 8761.

Then I have order service then product service.

So all are running.

So if you try to hit let's say 8083 is our API gateway run right API gateway.

But I am calling orders one.

If it call it's running.

So currently my product service is not running.

So let me start its application.

So my product application is also running now on 18082.

So now let hits product slash one.

It's product or products.

Products.

Fetch the product details with id one.

So even though I'm hitting API gateway so I will share the GitLab link also where I have provided all

the links, uh, all the code.

Now the next part in the next API gateway part where we will see the authentication rate limiting,

uh, resilience, circuit breaker, retry and everything how the API gateway handles that.

That is also very important part.

Right.

So today at least in the first basic part we know how API gateway route the Logic Plus does load balancing.

If you have any doubt with this one we can discuss further in the comment section.

Okay guys.

Thank you.

Bye.

--- ApiGateway in Microservices - Part2 - Authentication JWT, Circuit Breaker etc ---

Hey guys, and welcome back to the channel.

And in the previous video of API gateway, we have already seen how to perform a routing and how to

do the load balancing.

And today let's see how we can do authentication, circuit breaker, retry rate limiting etc. within

an API gateway.

So let's start without wasting any further time.

So to understand this we need to understand filters in API gateway.

Very important.

So filters can intercept and modify the HTTP request and response as they passes through the gateway.

Okay.

So there are two types of filter.

One is global filter.

Another is route specific filter.

Sometime uh engineers also call it gateway filters.

So what are global filters as the name says applied to every request that goes through gateway every.

Okay.

And very good example could be of like or performing authentication.

You want to do logging.

So those are some of the very good use cases for the global filters.

And route specific filters are like, as the name says, again applied to specific requests that matches

a particular route.

Okay.

We will not apply them globally to all the traffic, no, only particular traffic which matches a particular

route.

Okay.

And very good example would be you can say or you use case would be rate limiting circuit breaker resilience.

Retry that.

If you have multiple microservices you want different different configuration for for this circuit breaker

configuration could be different.

For this circuit breaker configuration could be different.

Okay I don't want to apply globally to all my to all the routes okay.

So we will see that.

But for now just have this definition like basic understanding and later on it will get more clarified.

So before we proceed further on the global filters and route specific filters, this flow we need to

understand properly.

Okay, this is the overall flow.

When a request comes to API gateway and its complete life cycle.

So now let's say the client hit the request localhost 8083 slash products slash one.

So this is our 8083 is our API gateway port number.

The request first goes to dispatcher handler dispatcher handler.

Okay.

After that it pass it to route mapping handler.

So what route mapping handler do.

Is it based on this route slash products.

It looks in our application.properties we define the routes right.

Route zero, route one.

So route zero is for product, route one is for orders and some certain configuration.

So based on the route let's say slash products, it define which config to use.

Like I show uh client slash products.

Right.

So it would use slash products slash asterisk asterisk.

So it would use this route route zero okay.

So it will create a route object.

After that there could be one.

There could be many global filters for each global filter.

A pre filter logic will run.

After that it invokes the next next filter in the chain.

So you can consider this as a chain of filters okay.

So first the pre filter logic You can say that logic runs.

After that.

It invokes the next filter.

So the next filter of global filter will get invoked.

If there are no more global filters, it will invoke the route specific filters.

Again, there can be many route specific filters, and for each filter there could be pre logic and

post logic.

So first it runs the pre logic.

And after running the pre logic it invokes the next filter in the chain.

So again the next filter could be route or next filter could be your again global filter also.

So now what happened in this there is a one global filter called route two request URL filter.

What it will do is whatever the path we are getting let's say slash products slash one.

We have to create a proper endpoint right.

Callable endpoint point because we are invoking it with the API gateway URL.

Write localhost 8083.

And based on this route we have to create a endpoint.

So currently our URI is load balancer.

So internally it has to call service discovery.

Then it do load balancing and then take out a one particular instance.

So that is all done by by this filter which is a global filter.

And then this ultimately pass to another global filter which is.

Net routing filter.

It task is to actually invoke the microservice.

And finally the microservice return the response.

And this.

Net routing filter which is a global filter.

It goes back to the.

Route specific filter okay.

And from there it will run.

It's the post filter logic.

So understand from this you have a pre logic.

Then you have like next and then post logic.

So this is the same code okay.

So pre logic run.

Then in the next it invokes another filter.

That task is completed.

Control goes back here.

And then it runs the post logic.

So the same thing okay.

So it control goes back.

And then it run the post filter logic.

So if you have multiple route specific filter.

So now all their post filter logic will run after that.

When all finish it the control goes back to the global filter this one.

And from there it will now run its post filter logic.

Okay, after that all this finished.

It runs one global filter at last, which is Netty writer response filter.

Its task is to forward the response to the client.

Okay.

So this is the overall flow.

So now here one question should have come to your mind is that hey, I see that global filters are before

the route specific filter also.

And global filters are after the route specific filter.

Like why there is no no sequence, right.

So I if I understand correctly either it should be like all global filters, first global filters and

then route specific filters or all route specific filters and then global filters.

Why there is a mix.

Why global filters are before and after the route specific filter.

What's the logic?

So the answer for that is ordering in API gateway each filter, whether it's a global or route specific,

is given an order.

Okay.

The maximum.

The minimum the order value means higher priority.

Maximum order value means low priority.

For example, if any filter has value minus one and any filter has order value zero, then filter with

order value minus one will run before filter with order value zero.

Okay, so generally most of the global filters are given lower value than route specific filters.

Okay.

So that's why global filters generally runs before the route specific filters.

They are given lower value.

But some global filters like route to request URL filter native routing filters intentionally given

higher value so that they execute last.

Okay.

So if you see the order value for this two global filters, the order value is given very high.

So for route to request, the order value which is given is 10,000.

And for native routing filter so that this should because this has to invoke the microservice right.

So it has to be like after all the filters.

So that's why it gives lowest precedence.

Lowest precedence means maximum value.

Okay.

So it has the lowest precedence.

So means it should run last.

So its value would be very high order value would be very high.

So that's why these two global filters comes very late in the filter chain okay.

And generally global filters Order values are smaller than root specific filters, so generally it runs

before the root specific filters.

Okay.

So there are just like certain scenarios where for specific filters I want to run it last itself.

And now if you see the order value of netty right response filter it's very less.

So means it.

This filter will be executed first in the chain okay so so here if you see this is the filter Netty

right response filter.

Let me zoom it a bit.

Okay I hope it is visible.

So here if you see for the netty right response filter order is minus one.

And if you see it's pre filter is empty.

Nothing in pre filter so means it directly invoke the next it directly invokes the next filter in the

chain, and then it has a lot of code into its post operation.

So generally what's happening here is.

So when the request comes here.

So you can say that when the request actually comes here it also passes through.

So actually if you see that it also passes through this.

But there is no in pre filter logic there is nothing.

Okay.

So it just passed to the next filter in the chain.

And but during response in the post filter logic it has a lot of logic.

And the logic is to pass the return the value to the client.

Okay.

So that's why it's order value is minus one so that it will execute early in the filter chain.

Okay.

So that during response it's post operation.

Post operation.

Or you can say that post logic execute at last okay.

Because it's going in the reverse direction.

So the only filter it's post operation will execute at last.

And why it want to execute at last.

Because we need to send the response to the client.

So it should be the last operation.

Okay.

So I hope this flow is clear and why some global filters are before route specific and why some are

after that is clear because this is very important ordering okay.

And one more thing is what are the by default values.

So for global filters if we do not define the order by default value is take that the lowest precedence.

Lowest precedence means uh, it would be executed last.

Okay.

And for the route specific filters.

So let's say you have created three route specific filter.

So what it will do is it will just use index 012 like this.

So you have three route specific filter right.

So for the first filter route specific filter order would be zero.

For the next one it would be one and then two.

Likewise it goes.

So this is the default behavior.

Okay.

So I hope till this point of time we are clear.

What is global filter.

What is route specific filter at least okay.

And the basic flow like how the basic flows in a API gateway happens.

And yes for sure about ordering.

Now let's go to the global filter.

First we know that There are so many already pre-existing global filters present like route to return

URL filter.

This is a global filter.

I already told you what its task is.

Net routing filter.

Its task is to invoke.

So this is also a global filter.

It's applied to all the requests no matter what.

Similarly native writer response filter.

This is also a global filter.

Its task is to, uh, return the value to the client, send the response to the client.

So there are already so many global filters.

But what it takes to write our own custom global filter, let's say I want to do it for authentication

like JWT, okay.

And I want it for my all requests.

So that's why I want to do this authentication into the global filters.

I want it applicable for all the requests.

So see.

So I created one class JWT Auth Global Filter annotated with add that component because I want to get

it managed by Spring boot implements global filter and ordered.

I told you that every filter, whether it's a root route specific or whether it's a global filter.

It's ordered like order value is given.

If we don't give it by default, it would be given okay.

Because we want control like okay.

Authentication should be run before authentication should be run before any other filter in the chain.

So that's why I want the control so that I will give the order okay.

So I need to implement global filter and also the order.

So here if you see in the ordered one I give minus one.

Lower value means higher priority.

So it would be it would be run early in the filter chain.

I give some negative number.

Okay.

Now in the global filter we have to override this filter method.

Now in this exchange this exchange represent the request and response.

And this chain is like the filter chain a filter chain of filters.

Okay.

So first now this is all our JWT.

Token verification logic.

Okay so I have take out a path exchange dot get request get uri get path I got a path.

If the path is slash auth I don't want to do any verification because this is the time when user has

to create the token and Ada API gateway.

Do not create tokens, it only verifies it for creation of the token.

Responsibility should be some one of the microservice.

Okay, so if the endpoint is slash auth it, just call the next filter in the chain pass through okay.

But if this is not the endpoint then for rest all other request I want to validate the token.

So from the request header I take out the authorization header.

If authorization header is null means token is missing.

So I am saying unauthorized.

Else I take out the token from the header authorization header.

Now your verification logic will come here.

So I have already created JWT authentication video.

Okay.

Uh, in the Spring boot series.

If you haven't, watch out.

Kindly check it out because.

How to verify.

How to create the token.

How to verify the token.

I have already discussed in there one.

Okay, so you are verified JWT token logic will come at this place.

Let's say if the verification fails.

Then the exception will catch and we will say unauthorized.

So response I will send unauthorized.

And I will mark the complete okay.

I will not proceed further.

I will make it request complete.

But if the token is valid then I am doing chain dot filter exchange.

So means I am passing the request.

Further in the chain to the next filter in the chain.

Okay, now here if you see I also added the.

Post filter.

So you have a prefilter prefilter logic.

So what is my prefilter logic here?

This before chain.

Before I pass the request to the next filter in the chain, everything is my prefilter.

Then at this point of time I pass the request to next filter.

Okay, after that I need a post logic.

So this is how we write a post logic.

Okay, so then mono dot from runnable and inside this.

This is an you can say that an executable.

So the your all the logic whatever the post operation logic you want put it inside this one okay.

Don't worry about this mono from runnable.

This is actually a spring cloud gateway internally uses reactive programming okay.

And we will see that into when we will start with the spring web flux okay.

So just understand that for now so that we have certain basic what exactly happen here.

Chain dot filter exchange.

Do not pass the request to the next filter synchronously.

No.

It passed the request asynchronously.

And when it passed the request asynchronously okay.

And if you write the post filter it will automatically get executed.

It will not even wait for the chain to complete properly.

Uh, microservice to get execute.

And when the response come, then only post will get executed, right?

It will not wait.

Since it is an asynchronous internally do asynchronously, it will directly goes to the post and complete

it and move ahead.

So that's where.

So we just put then mono dot from runnable.

We are saying that once this asynchronous Is completed.

Okay.

And when the response comes, then only perform this post filter logic.

Don't do it now.

Okay.

So this is our global filter.

This is how we write it.

Very very simple.

Nothing else.

Like you just have to provide an order.

You have to implement global filter.

And in this filter method write your logic filter logic.

Call the next filter in the chain and then write your post logic.

Okay.

And in the logic I am doing the authentication here.

Okay.

Do check out w JWT authentication.

You will get clarified how this verify JWT token logic need to be okay.

It's very very simple.

So I don't want to do it now.

Otherwise it would like, uh, go into totally what I have covered here.

Okay.

Then the next is route specific filters.

There are many pre-existing route specific filters available in Spring Cloud Gateway.

Like add request header used to add a header to the request.

Add response header.

Used to add a header to the response.

Remove request header.

Remove response header like it's to remove a request header and used to remove a response header respectively.

Retry used to retry the request on failure.

We already have a filter for this request.

Rate limiter used to apply rate limiting.

We already again see we already have a pre-existing route specific filter for circuit breaker.

Also we have it, but how to use it?

Now I am going to tell you so see how it works.

So now we are using pre-existing route filters and later on we will create our custom route specific

filter.

So now see this is my.

Product service route.

Okay.

Route zero.

And for this only I need to define for this route.

Only for this route.

For this products route only.

I want to define the filter.

Okay so I am defining filter.

Now let's see what is happening.

So I am so just one example for the pre-existing.

So one of the pre-existing is remove request header.

Remove request header.

So how I am doing is spring dot cloud dot gateway dot route zero.

So route zero means I want for this product services for route zero right.

So the same dot filter zero.

See I told you there can be many filters many route specific filters.

There can be many filters.

So filter.

Zero filter one filter two.

There can be many filters.

So this filter zero.

This filter one.

This filter two.

So currently I am writing filter zero.

What is the name remove request header.

So this is the name what filter.

So this is already present.

This class is already present.

This filter class is already present.

So we are you can say that we are giving a class name.

And then there is something called if this required certain configuration dynamic configuration okay.

Certain fields are there.

We where we can define dynamic values.

So generally it given like this spring dot cloud dot gateway route zero filter zero dot r dot name.

So understand now with this.

So if you see the framework you will see a class remove request header gateway filter factory.

So we just gateway filter factory.

You can say that this get appended.

Okay.

And before that, whatever it is that is our actual class name.

We give in the application dot properties.

It automatically append gateway filter factory while doing the mapping okay.

We don't have to give this gateway filter factory.

So if you open the class remove request header gateway filter factory this will get open.

So name is clear.

Like what name we have to give okay.

Second thing if you see this in this class it extend a abstract gateway filter factory.

And then we have defined one not we.

This framework has defined one config name config.

So if you see the name config it has one Field name.

So that field value, what is the value.

We can add it here.

We can define it like this okay dot r argument dot args dot this field name name whatever the field

name we want to give.

So see this filter task is to remove the header.

So it required a name.

What header name.

I have to remove which header.

Give me the name.

Then only I can remove right.

So I need certain input dynamically through configuration.

So that's why this configurations is mainly used to define fields which value.

We can configure it dynamically through configuration.

So whatever the name I can provide through configuration like this.

Route zero dot filter zero okay.

For this filter?

I am working on this filter.

Right.

And this filter uses this config.

Okay so and this config value has only name.

So that's why name and I provided this.

So what happen is inside this apply.

It uses this config name config.

Now if you see what it does from exchange it takes out the request.

It take out the header and it remove this name whatever we have provided.

So it's a dynamic whatever the value we will give in the configuration that will get removed.

And then it goes to the next filter chain.

Okay.

So this is just one example.

Don't worry we will see more like it will get clarifies how the route specific filter works.

Now let's see an example with multiple route specific filters like currently I showed one.

So let's say I want two three filters.

So see I have filter zero okay.

Add request header I want to add an header.

So.

First thing when you want a header definitely it required let's say name and value.

So header has two things.

What is the header name.

What is the value.

So.

If you see the name.

So these are all pre-existing we are talking about okay.

We are not creating any class now.

We have just used this configuration.

We are just using this filters route specific filters in our config.

So I am applying this add a request header.

Now the filter name is dot name add request header.

So what is the class name might be present Request header.

Go away.

Filter factory.

So if you see you will see this class present into the framework.

So this in framework this class is present.

Now here if you see this class is using this config name value config.

So it has two parameter name and value.

Now we need to dynamically uh tell the value right.

What is the name of the header.

What is the value okay.

And then we can add it through config.

So same thing.

Route zero filter zero dot arcs.

Now with this dot ask means we have.

We are going to assign value to its field.

The first field is name.

Give the header name and then dot value give the value.

Similarly for the response header okay.

So what is the name of the response header.

Add response header.

If you go in the framework you will see ad response header.

So here if you see if I search ad response header gateway filter factory okay so what is the config

text name value config and name value.

Config is name and value.

So the same thing filter one.

So now this is my filter one args dot name.

This is in the response.

Add this header name and the value add this.

Okay.

Similarly remove.

We have already seen you want to remove a particular header from a request.

It only required a name, so only one field.

Now if you see the hitter request and see the response response header.

So in the response header you see this.

It got added x test Stress response header.

API gateway response.

So this is the header name.

This is the header value got appended.

Okay so these are all the filters which already exist.

We just want to use it.

Similarly retry route specific filter also exists.

How to use it.

Let's see.

So again I am applying this uh retry filter onto our route zero which is for product service.

So spring dot cloud dot gateway route zero dot filter zero.

So this is the first filter I am writing for.

This route.

Name I have given is retry.

Now you know what is the class name you will find into the framework Retry gateway filter factory.

So this is get appended automatically gateway filter factory.

So if you open this class you will see what configuration it uses.

Retry config.

Retry config has multiple values.

Some of them are like number of retries on which methods you want to retry on what status, what should

be the status when you want to retry.

So I we have to provide values.

So now I am providing the values spring dot cloud dot gateway root zero filter zero.

Now ARX means in this configuration whatever the config this class uses in that this get mapped.

So it has one field retry.

So retries I am sending four time.

It should retry methods.

This field it should get retry for get and delete.

So only these two I have set.

So what would happen is.

For get and delete requests.

Whenever there is a failure retry will happen.

So for means total attempt is for one is original call and after that three retry.

So total four.

Okay.

Now we will do the testing.

So in the product microservice controller I have done like this just for testing purpose okay.

So for the initial three times I am failing the call, I am failing the request.

And after that three call I am sending the success response.

So now what happen is my retry count is four means total attempt is four out of total attempt, three

are failing.

But I want to make sure that my API gateway retry.

So at least it should uh total there should be four calls okay.

So fourth call should get past.

So now if you run this API gateway URL product slash one, what will happen is you will see that fetch

the product details on fourth attempt.

So fetch the product details on counter fourth attempt.

So first three was fail actually.

So on fourth it able to find so means our API gateway properly did the retry.

And we haven't written any code.

All we have provided the configuration.

All the code is already present.

We just give which pre-existing route filter we have to use.

And whatever the config it has, we have to just tell assign the values so whatever we wanted okay.

Also let's see circuit breaker how circuit breaker we can make use of in API gateway.

But if you have any doubt whether Circuit Breaker kindly check it out Okay, then it will get more.

Clarify.

Like what is closed state?

What is open state?

What is half open state?

So first thing first in Pom.xml we have to add a dependency for the resilience for J.

So circuit breaker is used like in within the resilience.

So resilience for J provide a circuit breaker capability.

Okay.

So that's why we need this dependency.

And if you have seen my previous video of the fault tolerance you might know that hey retry.

Also functionality is provided by resilience for J right.

Yes.

But here in the API gateway don't make use of resilience for J it.

Don't make use of resilience for J.

It has their own logic built up.

Okay.

So first thing first is we need the resilience for j dependency.

Now here in the application dot properties what we are doing it.

See this again.

This is our product service route.

And now we are writing the filter.

So this is my first filter for the circuit breaker I am writing for this route.

Route zero.

Filter zero.

What is the name.

Circuit breaker.

So you know write what would be the class name circuit breaker you can.

This will get appended automatically.

Gateway filter factory dot Java okay.

And now here if you see the configuration it uses it has one name.

So I am telling args dot name.

And this name is what this name is your circuit breaker config.

So if you have seen this video you know that what are the configurations we have to provide.

Okay.

Like how many, uh, like threshold value?

What is the threshold value?

And once it goes into the open state for how much?

Second, it has to be in there.

Okay.

What sliding window type.

It has to use all this thing we have seen already in the previous video.

So the same configuration we provide and this is our circuit breaker name.

You can say that just a name we have given our circuit breaker name.

So in this name we provide this value.

Actually my circuit breaker name, whatever the name you want to give, you can provide uh give that

name but use it here.

So what exactly it will do is our filter ultimately use the configuration's value from this the here

then whatever the circuit breaker config name we have provided here.

So it will start reading the values from here and you if you also remember that it.

There is also a fallback logic whenever a request fails, it also fallbacks.

So that's why it has another field into its config.

Dot asked dot fallback.

And we provide this forward colon slash your it actually a path.

So here if you see I have written one controller inside an API gateway itself.

So this is a controller I have given slash fallback and return a service is temporarily unavailable

like how I want to handle.

So the same thing you have to give here that fallback URI forward slash means it's an internal call

means it is within API gateway itself.

If there is no external call to any microservice, no, it's a internal call.

So that's why it just forward colon slash its tell to the API gateway.

Its an internal call.

Slash fallback is the endpoint which it has to invoke.

Okay so this is how circuit breaker happen.

Like so for testing what happened is the same thing.

What I did previously in the previous Circuit breaker video, I did not start the product microservice

server itself.

So I have given like threshold 5,050% is my threshold out of ten calls.

If five failed then means circuit should get open.

So that's what I did.

I called multiple times more than five times.

So threshold will get crossed okay.

And what would happen is you will see the fallback message service is temporarily unavailable.

And if you check the logs, you will see that the transition state transition happen from close to open.

Okay, now it will wait for ten second in open and then it will move back to automatically half open.

Okay.

So all the filters are already present.

Similarly for the rate limiter also the filter already exists.

All we have to use it like this.

Like how we are using.

So provide a filter name.

And this filter name would be.

You can know that from the class.

You can take out the prefix.

And then if it required if it is using some config just check out that config like if they have any

name or fields.

Okay.

And those fields value we can provide dynamically like this dot arcs dot field name and then value.

Now the last thing is, okay, how to write our custom route specific filter.

Now, I have already seen how the pre-existing route filter works, but how to write my own custom route.

So very very simple.

So here if you see I have route, see this one I have given the name class name custom route gateway

filter factory.

So you know that in the form, uh, not in the form.

So this is our.

Application dot properties, not pom.xml.

So whatever the filter, what what's the filter name would be this one custom rate route gateway.

Filter factory would not come here.

It will automatically get appended during mapping.

Okay, so I have created a class annotated with component.

I want to get it managed through Spring Boot extend, Abstract Gateway, Filter Factory and see I provided

one config.

In this class I have created one custom config.

This class I have created one custom config class.

So I have told that my this class which I am writing it will use this config and in this config I have.

So this is just for testing purpose.

So I have just provided one field string country.

That's all.

So you know that now to fill the value of this route zero filter, whatever the it is the fifth filter,

let's say there are already filter zero filter one, filter two, filter three, filter four.

So this is the fifth filter in the chain dot arcs.

So for this class in this config, which it used, whatever the field name would be.

I can use it.

Country and I can provide any value which I wanted dynamically.

So I put India.

Now what would happen is when this apply will run.

Okay.

So here in this one I can provide our pre logic.

System.out.println.

I whatever the pre logic you wanted you can use that.

And it has this custom config.

Okay as an argument which we can use it like this.

Once the pre logic is done okay you can call the next filter in the chain.

So I'm just calling chain dot filter exchange.

So means next filter got invoked.

And after that my post filter logic here.

Okay.

And that's all done.

If you run the application and hit an API you will see that my pre filter logic the value India which

I provided got printed and after that post filter runs also.

So this is how simple to write a filter in it in API gateway.

Okay.

And using this filter only.

We can do Authentications.

We can do rate limiting.

We can do circuit breaker retry, request response, transformation monitoring logging etc..

Okay.

Just see your use case.

If your use case is like hey, I want to apply it for all the requests, then go for Global Filter.

If I have to apply it to a specific request, go for route specific filter.

Okay, I hope this makes sense and it would be helpful in your interviews and day to day work, but

if you have any doubt, let me know in the comment section we can discuss further by.

--- Central Configuration ---

Hey guys.

Welcome back to the channel.

And today in spring microservices we are going to do centralized configuration.

And I can say that in most of the companies which are dealing with the spring boot, they are following

the centralized configuration approach only for managing the configurations.

But let's see the problem first.

And with that you will get to know better understanding that why?

Why everyone is following the centralized configuration approach okay.

The first problem is rebuild and redeploy.

Assume that this is your application order application and this is the Application.properties where

you are maintaining your configuration.

Now say that you have to update this configuration.

What you have to do.

You have to edit the application.properties file.

And after that you have to rebuild your jar and then redeploy the surface okay.

So just one configuration update, you have to rebuild and redeploy.

And with that itself, you can know that it's a big pain.

Okay.

Now the problem two is that inconsistent config across services.

Many times what happens is there have similar configuration across multiple microservices like this.

Let's say uh I have a very big order microservices which I have further divided into two smaller microservices.

One is pre order and another is post order application.

So both are different microservices but both helps in fulfilling the order itself pre order and post

order.

So definitely that the DB which they are pointing to with the same DB.

Okay.

And this is just a one configuration.

There can be many configuration which are common across multiple microservices.

So this is just one example.

So whenever you are making any update or adding a new property file, you have to make sure that it

is consistent across all the microservices.

Okay.

So that is another challenge.

Okay.

Now let's say that you change the DB.

You have made the change to order hyphen DB to something else, and you made only changes in the pre

order.

You forgot to make change in to the post order application.

Then it's become inconsistent configuration across different applications.

The third problem is no runtime update.

This is very important.

Now let's say that your application is already running in live and you need to change certain configuration.

Okay.

Then how your application which is running in live can see those configuration changes.

Is it possible?

Currently no because Application.properties file is loaded only once at startup.

When your application is getting, you are starting your application.

Let's say order application only that time it read application.properties file okay.

After that, if you make any changes into this one, there is no way that runtime itself while this

application is running it, observe the changes.

Okay, this has been updated.

There is no way.

Okay, so you have to stop it, okay?

You have to rebuild it and then you have to deploy it again.

Currently this is the way.

Okay.

If you have application.properties with the particular microservice, what is the problem for time consuming

rollback.

I told you that if any configuration change you make, you have to let's say raise the PR, get it merged.

Then you have to build the service again and then you have to redeploy.

Everything has to be done.

And if any issue comes, you have to follow the complete process again, which is a time consuming process.

Okay.

So that's what I have mentioned it here.

You have to manually add it.

You have to rebuild it.

You have to redeploy.

If multiple servers are impacted you need to fix all like in this example.

Let's say if db url has you have done misconfiguration, then you have to do the same process for this

pre-order application.

You have to the same process for post order application.

Okay.

So the rollback is time consuming.

So what's the solution for that solution for is centralized configuration with spring cloud config.

Very important you will find mostly companies are using this okay.

So here the first, you can say that this is the outer layer one.

In the first layer, which is we have our config files.

So we create a git repository just to store the config files.

Okay.

This is where we put our dot properties files.

Okay.

Even though you have multiple microservices for all the microservices we we have to put the configuration

files dot property files here in this git repository.

Okay.

So this is our first thing we will see.

We will go in depth of each of layer separately.

So this is the first thing.

Now the second thing is another microservice config server.

So its task is to fetch the config from the git.

So here.

So this config server fetches the application.properties from this git repository where we have only

the property files.

Okay.

And in the layer three you can see that we have our microservices individual microservices.

It connect with the config server.

Okay.

So you can say that order is connecting with config server and saying that hey can you help me fetch

the properties for this order application.

It goes to the config files git repository where the properties files are there.

It fetches the property from there and provide it to the order service.

Okay.

So now let's go one by one at each service.

Let's say step one setting up the config file repository.

Okay.

So within this repository we know that we have to keep all the property file for all the microservices.

Okay so I created a simple git repository.

Nothing like a maven project or nothing simple git repository which has plain files application dot

property files.

Yes, you can group it under a particular folder also.

So like I have created one folder global.

There I have put all these properties application dot property application hyphen dev dot property application

hyphen prod and application hyphen dot property.

So these are different profiles.

And before I proceed further, if you have any doubt with the profile we have already covered in depth

into the Spring Boot series like so we have seen like what is dev QA, prod profiles?

Okay, so kindly check it out.

Like if you have any doubt with this like okay what does application hyphen dev dot property means and

uh respectively other files also okay.

So these are global files.

Okay.

I name into the folder global and I have put application dot properties.

And it's different profile like dev prod QA.

Similarly I have created one folder order service.

Within that I have put all the application all the property files for the order service.

Now here if you see that if I have your let's say this is your service order service.

And within that application dot property file you give the application name.

So name is you have given let's say order hyphen service.

So the same name you have to use it here.

Okay.

So for a particular specific application you have to use application name.

Application name.

Let's say order hyphen service dot properties order hyphen service hyphen dev dot properties.

So different profile hyphen dev hyphen prod.

Hyphen qa.

So these are the different profiles for the order services.

Okay.

Similarly if you have different other microservices like invoice you can create different folder invoice

service and whatever the name you have used in the invoice application, we will see that in when we

will write the whole code, we will see that the same name you have to use it, let's say invoice hyphen

service dot properties invoice hyphen service hyphen dev dot properties.

Likewise okay.

Now very important is the precedence okay.

These global why have why I have specifically termed the name global.

Why.

Because application dot properties.

And these are all you can say that applies to all the microservices.

For example let's say you have global and you have application dot properties Is dev qa prod.

Likewise.

Similarly you have order it's order service dot property order service hyphen dev hyphen qa hyphen prod.

Likewise similarly for invoice similarly you have payment service.

Okay.

So let's say you have different microservices.

So this global act as a fallback okay.

Fallback for which configuration.

Now let's say that you are specifically looking for order.

And let's say this dev hey you are looking for configuration within this order service and to the dev

configuration.

So if that configuration is missing here then it will follow certain sequence to okay what is the next

fallback.

Can I fallback to this global.

Okay.

If yes.

And if configuration found then it will use that.

So that's where I mean that very important to understand the precedence.

So I will come to this points later.

The first I will want to explain you the precedence which is very important, and understand this with

this example first.

So we will see this example first.

Then we will see this generic one.

And then we will read this, uh this one.

Then it will become super clear.

Now let's say you are this is your application order service.

This is your application.

And you are looking for config profile div.

Okay.

So currently let's say you are working with the profile div.

So what is the precedence.

So first it will look for order hyphen service hyphen div dot properties okay so this is the first precedence

okay.

Now let's say that your configuration is missing in this one, then it will fall back to.

I told you that these are the global.

This act as a fallback.

Now, if you are looking for this configuration within this dev and the configuration is missing here,

it fall back to the global one.

But global one.

Which one?

There are so many.

So you are looking for hyphen dev right.

So it will first fallback to this hyphen dev.

Okay.

So application hyphen dev dot property.

So this is a global one but it's specific profile whatever you are looking for.

Now let's say that again you the configuration is missing here.

Okay.

So now what it will do.

Let's go back here.

Now the configuration is missing also here in this dev.

So should I fall back to this one or should I fall back to order hyphen service dot properties.

Okay.

So See application dot properties is fallback for all profile dev prod qa okay.

Similarly, order hyphen service dot properties is fallback for all dev prod qa okay.

So first what internally does that it try to look into the dev itself application dot application hyphen

dev dot properties which is a global one but specific profile.

Now if it is missing if property is missing there instead of looking into application dot properties

which is for all common for all microservices, it first look into order hyphen service dot properties.

Now it got fallback to order hyphen service dot properties.

It says that okay, uh, the configuration is missing into the dev itself.

Then I would fall back to whatever the order hyphen service dot properties has okay because this is

common for QA for all profile dev prod.

This is the default.

You can say that.

Okay.

So first precedence is whatever the exact profile you are looking for or exact application you are looking

for.

So it first look into that.

Otherwise it will look into the global one but exact profile.

So you can see that the profile is important first.

So first preference is always profile first exact application then the global one but exact profile.

If that is missing here then it will goes to the okay.

Now for this application, whatever the common for all the profiles, I will use that.

If it is missing there also, then it has no choice but to fall back to the default one like application

dot properties, which is for all microservices for all profile.

Okay, now let's say that if that is also So configuration is missing.

It is not there.

Then it will fall back to particular order with each application.

There is also application dot properties application hyphen dev dot properties.

Okay then it will it will fall back to that local.

So local always has the last precedence.

Okay.

So then it will fall back to application hyphen dev dot properties.

If that is missing configuration is missing there then it will ultimately fall back to Application.properties

local one local means now with your application.

Whatever the property files you have application dot properties file.

So this is the same thing I have mentioned here.

Okay.

Now read this term global properties which I have defined here.

Application dot property applies to all service and all profile All service.

All profile.

Application.

Particular profile.

Application.

Hyphen.

Dev application.

Hyphen QA application.

Hyphen.

Prod.

This apply to all service but with specific profile.

Similarly, we have specific services specific like your application name dot properties applies to

particular service.

Let's say you have order service dot property.

So this is applied to order service only particular service but all profile dev prod.

Similarly you have application name hyphen profile.

So particular service particular profile.

Okay.

So.

This precedence is very very important where most of the confusion happens.

If you are clear with this precedence I think you would be able to properly clearly understand and manage

the git repository for this config files.

Okay.

And also you can just see this.

This is the generic of this itself.

Like the first precedence is application name.

Whatever the particular application you are trying to search and its particular profile.

If that is missing then the global but the same profile is the next order.

If that config is missing there itself, then the particular application name dot properties.

Okay, now this is common let's say for QA dev prod but for particular service only.

If that is missing here, then it goes to ultimate fallback to Application.properties which is a global

for all microservice all profiles.

Then after that it fall back to local specific microservice, their application hyphen dev or QA, whichever

you are looking for that properties and its local application dot properties.

At last we will see that with an example.

I hope this step one is clear and the precedence is very important.

Again, I am telling precedence is very important.

This is where most of the confusion happen.

Now let's move back.

Uh, move forward to the step two.

We have already done the setup of this config files.

Now we have to set up the config server.

So config server is the one which fetches the config from this git.

So this application which we are now going to write that ultimately fetches the property from this git.

So you can open the spring initializer.

And from there we can uh add this like whatever the version you want to work with, always pick the

let's say uh, 1721 whichever you are comfortable with.

Right.

And the stable version.

Now here you will see that you have to pick this.

form.

Dependency config.

Server dependency.

Okay.

So this brings this dependency into our pom.xml.

Spring cloud config server.

So this is our act as a server and its task is to fetch the properties.

Okay.

So now let's see that.

So first you have done that.

You have created this project and chosen this dependency config server.

And make sure that your Pom has this dependency added.

Now in its application.properties you have to add certain things.

First thing is you have to provide a git URI.

Spring cloud config server git uri which git uri this where we have provided the configuration property

files property files right in the git repository, so its git URL we have to provide.

So this is the git URL.

Okay.

So at this point of time this git is public.

So you can directly write like this.

You don't need any username.

You don't need any password.

You can directly give the URL link okay.

If it is a public git repo okay.

Now the second is configuration is spring cloud config server git search path.

So here I have created two folders.

If you remember from this I created two folders here.

One is global.

Another is Order service.

So I have provided the search path here.

Search this folders Order service and the global.

If you haven't created any folder and just you have like plane dot property file without any folders,

then you don't need this one.

but if you have divided into like proper folders, then you need to divide provide all the folders which

it need to look.

Then the third is git clone dot on start so it can be true or false.

So if it is true then what would happen is it will download the property from central config at the

time of application startup.

If it is false, it will be downloaded at the time of first request.

So now when you going to start this application config server at the time of application startup itself,

it will download all the properties okay and cache it.

But if you make it false, then when the first request come not at the time of application startup,

when the first request come at that point of time, it will download it and then put a cache.

Anyway, it will download and put into the cache.

But at what time is the application startup or at the first request that we have to tell?

So I would always say that always use clone on start during application startup itself.

It will download it and put it into the cache.

And the third and the another configuration is git dot default hyphen label like which from which branch

you have to fetch it by default is main itself.

But let's say you have very, uh, feature specific changes.

So you can give a branch name from where this property file has to be fetched.

So default is main.

Even if you don't skip this one it will fetch it from main only.

But if you have any different other branch which is not main, then you can use this git default hyphen

label and you can provide a branch name from branch name of which this config file git repository.

Okay.

So this is the thing which you require.

Now, the question might have come to you.

Okay.

This is the public git repo link.

We can directly provide a link and it would be able to access it.

But most of the cases repos are not public.

It is private.

Then what to do.

So like this.

So let's say that whatever the config file which I have created, this one, this repo, I have specifically

made it private.

So you will see the lock sign here.

Now what.

How to add it.

So we need username and password.

And for password specifically token.

So if you are using GitLab so in in the GitLab if you see the right hand side of your this is your repo.

And here if you see three dots within that go to the project setting.

Inside the project setting you will see access token.

From that access token you just create a new token and copy it.

But if you are using GitHub, click on your profile within that profile, go to the setting from that

setting goes to developer setting.

From developer setting you will see Personal Access token.

Click on fine grained token and you can create one token here and just copy it.

Once you do that in the application.properties earlier, you have already provided the URI.

That is okay.

Still, we have to do that, but now we have to provide this git dot username git dot password also.

Okay.

And it's never recommended to directly put your username and password here itself okay.

Always put into environment variable.

Or if you have any server which manage the keys or fetch it from there.

Okay so for now I am putting into the environment.

So in the IntelliJ if you open the run click on run, click on Edit Configuration.

Figuration there you can add.

So git underscore username.

Git underscore username.

And you put whatever the username you have.

So generally after like whatever the gitlab.com github.com whatever the name you have generally that

is the username.

But you can check your profile.

You have created into that git account and see what is the username you have given.

Generally this is the username.

So you you can put your username like this.

Git underscore username equals to this semicolon.

Now your token git.

The name I have for the placeholder is git underscore underscore token git underscore underscore token.

Now paste it your token.

Done.

So if you have a private repo you have to just add username and token also.

And how you can create the token.

You can see this.

Order like this is the way for the GitLab and GitHub.

Okay so till now what we have done is like we have created an application with this dependency config

server.

We have added application.properties, provided the git URL, what search path and this what branch.

We have to fetch the properties.

And one last thing we have to do is within the application the main class.

The main class.

You have to just enable the config server at the rate enable config server.

Why it is required?

Because this will turn this spring boot app into central configuration server means it will load the

repository file from central config repo during application startup and expose certain endpoints.

So you can say that if you don't add this, the certain beans will not get initialized.

So when you add this, then spring will get to know that okay you are creating a config server.

Okay.

Which task is to fetch the property from the, uh, you can say that the central configuration where

you have kept a repository from that it has to fetch the configuration and then it expose certain.

You can say that it has its own controller where it has exposed certain endpoint which we can use.

Okay.

So this is one of the endpoint slash application slash profile slash label.

So let's test till this point.

So I have updated the central config repo with the property files.

So this is the central config repo which has just plain property files.

Okay.

Just see this for global.

I have added this application dot properties hyphen dev hyphen prod hyphen qa and application dot properties

I have put.

This is the configuration custom dot message.

Hello from global default.

So this is global.

And this is default like for all QA prod dev profiles.

Similarly for application dev I just put hello from global dev since Application.properties right.

It's a global but dev it's like global dev.

Similarly for prod you will see that a hello from global prod and for QA hello from global QA.

Now inside the order service I have this order hyphen service, hyphen dev, hyphen prod, hyphen QA

and this one.

So here I have just put hello from order default the same configuration custom dot message same.

But the message is hello from order default.

So this is the default for this order service for QA for prod for dev but only for order service.

So hello from order default.

So for this one, I've just put a message.

Hello from order Dave.

For this one, hello from order prod.

Hello from order QA.

So likewise for with one configuration I have filled this property files.

And so my repo is ready and I have pushed it into the main.

Okay.

And I started the configuration server with the.

I have done everything and I have put put this annotation also and started the application for this

configuration.

Now once you start this configuration and once you have added this annotation, I told you that it act

as a config server.

It expose certain endpoints like this okay application slash profile slash label.

So now I am just hitting that one localhost 8888.

So at this this is the port number which I'm using for config.

So here if you go above I am using 8888 for this config server.

Okay so this is the config server which we are creating right.

So it is running on 8888.

So now let's see that.

So first is application.

Application.

So I put the application name order hyphen service.

What is the profile I'm looking for Dave.

And which label main.

So if you don't even provide label right it will by default look for main.

But if you specifically provide a main then it will use this like from which which branch you are specifically

looking for.

If you don't give it okay, if you don't give it, it will look at your application dot properties for

config server and if you have defined there whatever the branch name you are looking for.

Default hyphen label.

Right?

It will use that branch.

If you haven't defined that itself, it will use main.

Okay.

Otherwise you can use uh directly provide into this also.

Now here if you see what is the order you are expecting without even looking this what is the order

you are expecting?

Okay.

Just write down in your copy what is the order?

So now here I am hitting order hyphen service div.

So it will look for first order hyphen service hyphen de.

If configuration is missing it will look for application hyphen dev.

Then it will look for order hyphen service dot properties.

And last it will look for application dot properties.

So now if you see the response it will give me an array.

So this array act as a precedence.

So first first precedence is Hello from order, dev.

Hello from order dev.

So it is coming from order hyphen service.

Hyphen.

Dev dot properties.

The second in the array is hello from global dev.

It is coming from application hyphen dev.

Then the third in the order is hello from order default.

It is coming from order hyphen service dot properties.

And the last in the order is hello from global default which is application dot properties.

Till this point we haven't added our order application.

Okay so if it is missing there also then it fall back to ultimately local.

That is the last.

That's why the local has the last precedence.

If configuration is missing here itself then it fall back to the local.

So till here we have done means our configuration server is also set up and endpoint is working fine.

If we hit the end point, we are getting the response from the get.

Now the step three is adding the microservices.

So this git repo we are all the properties are present.

That is done.

Config server is done which is able to fetch the file.

Now all we have to write is our individual independent microservices.

Now let's say I am creating order microservice.

So this is order service.

You can create it.

Now remember that this is your client.

This is your config server.

Now this is your config client.

So you have to add this dependency config client dependency.

It will bring this spring hyphen cloud hyphen starter hyphen config.

So this is act as your config client now okay.

So here if you see on startup this app will contact a config server during application startup when

you start an order service.

At that point of time, it contacts the configuration server.

The configuration server you know that it is enabled with this at the rate enable config server and

fetch its configuration.

It automatically load those properties into the app environment as if they were local application properties.

So for this I will tell you we will come with an example for this one.

So will this line will commit.

So now let's say that you have downloaded this created this project.

You have this dependency.

Double sure that you have this dependency added.

Now I have created its application dot properties also.

So inside this application dot property, this one I have provided the name order hyphen service.

Remember that this is the name only we are using into our centralized config repo for order service

right order hyphen service.

So whatever the name you would give, you have to use the same name in the git repository where you

are maintaining the property files.

The second configuration I am adding it is spring dot config dot import.

This is the config server config server url.

Okay host and port number.

You can use Eureka server.

Okay.

If you don't want to hardcode it.

Generally we never hard code it.

Okay.

So you can integrate with Eureka server.

We have already seen how to integrate with Eureka Server.

We have already covered that.

So here I have directly hard coded the URL, but I would highly recommend that.

Watch out the Eureka server video where we have uh integrated.

We are dynamically fetching the host and the port number.

Okay, but before that I have put this optional config server.

What does it mean?

I am telling that hey order service.

Even if config server is down, you don't have to fail, you don't.

Your application should be able to start up okay and your source of truth would be your local application

dot properties.

Okay, so your source of truth would be your dev, your QA, your prod okay.

So don't rely.

So this is just an optional if you are if you see that config server is down or unreachable, your application

startup should not fail.

Okay.

But if you skip this.

And your config server this one your config server is not up or down On unreachable.

Your order service will not even start itself.

Okay, so that's why I have put it optional.

Then I have put the profile spring dot profiles dot active div okay.

For now I have for testing purpose I have keep it div that.

Hey, yes I am working in the development environment.

So I want to load this div properties.

And if you see the profile video also, you can see that there is also a way to dynamic uh, while starting

the application you can provide whether which profile you want to work.

So that is one way.

Another way is that in the application dot properties you can override like which environment you are

working at.

Okay.

So both is correct.

Now let's say you are working in the development environment.

You just change that active profile.

Let's say div okay.

And yes you have put the configure custom message hello hello from local default.

Similarly for the dev, this is the message.

Hello from local dev.

And then you have QA.

Hello from local QA.

So I have defined this property file also.

Okay so now you know the order now.

Till this point you are clear that first this is the precedence.

If the configuration is missing here in the global default also, then ultimately it fall back to this

local property files.

Okay.

Let's say you are looking for dev right.

So it will first give precedence to application hyphen dev.

If it is missing then it will go to this local application dot properties which is default for dev qa

prod.

Okay.

Then you can add the order controller.

Simple.

In the order controller you have let's say at the right value.

You are looking for custom dot message Okay.

And just very simply using this here into this and you can try hitting it.

I am just hitting this endpoint slash order slash fetch.

Okay.

This is your order application.

It is running on 8080.

Now if you see that from where it fetch, fetch.

Order and message.

Hello from order.

Dev.

Fetch.

Order and message.

Hello from order dev.

So where it might have come from?

Local?

No, it has come from this one.

The first one.

Hello from order.

Dev.

Okay.

So now one question might have come to your mind.

Hey, our order application is running and someone has updated the central config.

So you have your config repo here.

Now then you have config server.

And then you have order service.

Now your order service is running.

But somebody has updated.

Updated the properties how your order service will get to know until and unless you won't do application

startup it will not reflect.

Okay.

Do I need to restart the app every time, anytime, any change happen in this repo?

That's where the biggest advantage comes into the picture.

It has a you can say that a feature to dynamic update the properties.

Okay.

So there is a concept called refresh scope.

But for that we have to understand the actuator actuator.

Okay.

So for that we have to understand the actuator okay.

So I will cover the actuator first.

And after that I will cover the refresh scope.

And with that I think it would become clear from end to end that okay we have till now created this

central configuration okay.

Now all is very important thing left is dynamic update.

Even my order service is running.

How it can fetch the latest changes from this repo.

Okay that's where the refresh scope comes into the picture.

But for that you need to understand the actuator first.

So see you in the next video.

And if there is any doubt feel free to comment in the comment section.

We will discuss further.

Okay guys.

Bye.

--- Actuator ---

On this side.

Welcome back to the channel.

And today in Spring Boot we are going to cover actuator.

So let's start without wasting any time.

Actuator provide production ready endpoints to monitor and manage the spring boot application okay how.

Let's say that whatever the project you have, all you need to add is your actuator dependency.

Okay, if you are creating a fresh project, just add this dependency.

Also internally it brings this spring boot hyphen starter hyphen actuator to your pom.xml.

Okay.

And if you already have the project set up, just add this dependency okay.

Once the dependency is set.

Now if you see the application dot properties there are two major property okay.

So this one is all optional.

First one is optional management dot endpoints dot web dot base hyphen path okay.

So base path So I use slash manage.

I told you it's optional.

If I don't use it, the base path would be slash actuator.

Okay.

So actuator provide production ready end points.

There are so many end points.

So you can say that this is the base path.

So there would be like slash.

After that there would be metric name.

There are so many.

But base is this slash actuator slash metric name.

Okay.

But since I have overrided it because I don't want to use slash actuator, I want my personalized.

So I use slash manage.

Okay.

But this is optional.

Another property is also you can say that optional management dot endpoints dot web dot exposure dot

include.

So currently I have put star means all the matrices all the matrices endpoints are exposed.

Okay.

If I told you that it's an optional if it is not added.

If this property is not added, only health and info.

These two endpoints are visible.

Okay, you would be able to invoke only these two endpoints.

Others are not.

So if you want only selected then you can use comma separated here like health comma info and point

comma metrics endpoint comma loggers endpoint.

Likewise.

But for testing purpose we want to enable all the endpoints.

So I put star here okay.

But if you this is also an optional.

If you don't add it only these two endpoints you would be able to hit okay.

So that's all we have added the dependency in application dot properties.

We have added and generally both are optional.

And we are just starting our application and our application is started.

Now if you see that I am hitting this endpoint slash manage slash health.

So this is the base one.

Instead of slash actuator.

I have changed it to slash manage in application dot property.

And this is slash health.

Now it give me this.

It means that my server is up and running okay.

So it give me certain input data information.

Similarly there is another endpoint slash metric.

If I invoked it like slash manage.

This is my base slash metrics okay.

What it return it returned me all the endpoints which are currently available within this matrix.

Okay.

So let's say that I pick one of this endpoint.

So I have to call like slash manage.

This is the base okay slash metrics because we are going to use this one and one.

We are going to use one of the metrics of which are present inside this slash matrix.

And we are using this one executor dot dot core.

So slash manage slash matrix slash executor dot pool dot core.

So it returns me like what all the thread pool executors are present and what the thread pool size.

Okay.

So likewise you see that there are lot more matrices available for JVM for your CPU process for your

server.

Okay, for your thread pool executor, you can get lot more information about your system okay.

So let's see some useful inbuilt actuator endpoints.

So these are also an inbuilt only.

But this is just to show the demo like okay how you can add actuator within your project.

Very simple.

All you need is your dependency.

You have to enable or expose the endpoints which you have to use.

This is optional.

If you don't use it, you have to use slash actuator as a base path.

If you want, you can give some meaningful name like slash manage.

Okay.

And you are able to hit the endpoints.

So there are so many endpoints like slash health.

Now let's little bit further deep into this because this is very important one.

So by default it provide the health status of our application whether it's up down out of service.

Unknown okay.

Currently our app is up and running.

So that's why it is giving up.

So here if you see that we can even extend to add additional check.

So apart from so let's say that my requirement is that hey okay my application is up and running.

My Tomcat is up and running.

But I also want to check like hey, what about my DB?

Is it up and running or not?

What about the cache?

What about the my message broker?

So once If all of this are up, then only I want to make my system up.

If any of them is down, it should be down.

Okay.

So that also you can extend it.

Okay.

So very simple in this one let's say that I am adding DB functionality into the health itself okay.

So this is something that I am writing a class database health indicator.

This is the class name which I have given.

You can give any name.

All you have to do is you have to implement health indicator.

This health indicator interface is for this slash endpoint.

Slash health endpoint okay.

So we have to provide an implementation for this health method.

So since it is database so you can have your custom logic here to check whether the DB is up or not.

So here for now I am just returning.

True.

But in the production We can simulate like by checking whether that I'm able to query DB or not.

Okay, so for now let's say I am returning true that yes, my DB is up.

So if DB is up I am making health dot up.

Okay for the DB.

So for each one there is a health, for each one there is a health.

So I'm making it's health up.

Okay.

And also I have added the message like DB available.

If it is not available I am making the health down.

And with message like DB not available.

Similarly for cache I am doing another class cache health indicator which implements health indicator.

Implemented the health method.

Check the cache status.

And now here.

If you notice that I specifically made it false okay, just for testing purpose.

Now if the cache is up I can make cache health So it health is up or down, whatever we are doing.

So for now it is false.

So it would be held down with message like cash not available.

Okay.

So now if you hit this slash manage slash health okay you will see that hey got status down.

Hey why why only this one.

Where is this message DB available or cash not available.

And why down.

So see the above status one is aggregated one aggregated one.

And inside this it has multiple.

So where we have DB we have cash okay.

So when all are up when everything is up then only the above status is up.

If any one of the sub component or sub metric you can say that is down.

The above one is down also.

Saw.

Okay.

So but you can say that okay.

That is understood.

But where is the information?

I am not able to see my DB and this cache which I have added.

Okay I know that this is down because for the cache one I have specifically made false and for cache

it is down.

So that's why my overall aggregated is down also.

But where is the information?

See, by default health only show this much above status.

But if you want the complete details.

Also we have to add this management dot endpoint dot health show hyphen details equals to always by

default.

It's never okay.

Once you add this application dot properties and hit it again okay.

Now here if you see the details are added cache details, we make it the status down specifically.

And this is the info cache not available for database.

It's up and detail is DB available.

And since once sub service is down, the overall status is down.

Okay.

Similarly we have so many matrices right.

We have uh slash matrix endpoint.

And we have already seen that when you invoke this one it gives you a list of all the matrices which

are available within this.

And we can access particular matrix like this slash matrix slash particular matrix within this okay.

So there are so many available inside this.

Matrices like JVM memory use how much memory currently used by the JVM so you can get that information

okay JVM dot memory dot max.

What is the maximum memory JVM can use.

So how you can use this that slash manage slash matrix slash matrix slash right.

Because these are all the matrices are present within this endpoint.

Okay.

So this I want to use this.

So JVM dot memory dot use.

So it will give you this info.

Similarly you can get garbage collection matrices like JVM dot gc dot pos okay.

So you can get multiple information that okay total number of GC events occur, how many times GC has

run, total time spent, and what is the longest single GC pause observed.

Okay, so you can get all this information.

Similarly, you can get information regarding your thread, your system usage or your request HTTP server

dot request.

If you use this, you can get what is the total number of HTTP requests you have received.

Total time is spent handling all the requests.

Longest time taken to handle single request.

All this information you can get.

Okay.

So you can play different with this different end points.

You will get better information depending upon your need.

Your company, what matters you are interested in.

Okay, so there are more like thread dump, heap dump.

So those information are also available.

So another API is like slash manage slash thread dump okay.

So it helps you to diagnose deadlock or thread leaks.

Which thread are active blocked waiting okay.

Even the stack trace.

What code is executing by which thread thread name and everything.

So this is output you will get.

Hey, this is the thread.

Currently it is the stack trace.

Currently it is running this code.

It is currently like waiting or blocked or what is the state runnable.

Different thread.

So all this information you will get whatever you want.

Okay, so this is the official documentation.

Okay.

Um, I will put it into the description section.

Also, you can use it.

It has a list of all the endpoints.

And based on your company needs and the metrics which you are interested in you can use that.

Okay.

So you have heaped um mappings beans.

What are beans in your uh spring application.

Is there.

Shut down okay.

Loggers.

So many things okay.

Now only thing specifically I want to mention that this shutdown and heap dump, even though we have

put a star right, you remember, exposed all the endpoints here, exposed all the endpoint star.

Even after that.

Also, you won't be able to hit slash shutdown and slash heap dump like slash manage slash Shut down

and slash manage slash heap dump.

You won't be able to hit it.

Why?

Because they are very critical endpoints.

When you invoke shutdown, it will stop your application.

When you call the heap dump right, it will expose sensitive information like some token, password,

etc..

So Spring Boot want you to take additional.

You can say that, uh measure that.

Hey, yes, you are totally accepted the risk involved by exposing then these endpoints.

So for this you have to specifically mention like this in the property management dot endpoint dot heap

dump dot access unrestricted.

Currently it's restricted.

Similarly for shutdown also management dot endpoint dot shutdown dot access unrestricted.

After that only you would be able to access this even though you have mentioned star, you have to unrestricted

manually.

It is just way of saying that spring boot saying hey, you have accepted the risk involved.

Okay, so you can say that with great power actuator provide you great power.

The responsibility, great responsibility also comes okay security.

Very important part here in that is all these endpoints are generally public okay.

So like slash health slash info slash matrix slash whatever the pool JVM these are all public.

Anybody can invoke it if they know your URL and port number okay.

And these can expose some critical info about your system.

You don't want anybody to be get uh call this endpoint.

So you have to add security to this endpoint.

So we have already covered spring security in depth.

Kindly check it out.

All we can do is that you have in the dependency.

You have to add the spring security.

Okay, we have already covered.

If you have already covered spring security, you might already know this thing.

Very simple part.

So you need spring security dependency.

And in the security config we have again I am saying you if you haven't seen the spring security video,

you might be seeing this as are out of the context like what is going on.

But that's what I mentioned.

Like kindly check it out.

Spring security where we have discussed everything this in depth.

Okay.

So there we have a filter chain.

So here I have put that okay.

Only the health and info.

You can permit everything okay.

But for any other request you need to authenticate.

So even if you don't want to this you can just simply say any request authenticated okay.

You can choose any authentication JWT for here I am just using basic authentication for testing purpose

Okay.

And in application dot properties you can provide username password.

Again this is just for testing basic authentication okay.

For more in depth like.

How security works.

You can check it out here.

So just wanted to highlight that you can.

Secure these endpoints like any request you have to authenticate or you can add more.

Like hey request matcher like any endpoint start with slash manage or slash actuator say.

Star star any endpoint start with this should has role let's say admin you can add this.

We have already seen this before how we can do that.

But I'm saying that you can reuse those.

To manage your actuator endpoints that they have some specific roles and they should be properly authenticated

before anybody can use it.

Okay.

So let's say that if I try to use it slash envy without providing the authentication, it will say unauthorized.

And after providing username and password it will it show me the data.

Okay.

So before proceeding further, if you haven't seen the spring security, kindly check it out.

Because I am not covering here because that would be duplicate and it's not a small topic.

There are total overall nine parts in this one.

So spring security is a very big topic.

So kindly check it out.

And this all these things would be clear.

So just at here my intention is to just tell that always make sure that in spring security you have

specifically checking that all the actuator endpoints has a specific role checks for authorization and

it should be authenticated also.

This is very important.

Custom actuator endpoints okay.

So like we have so many endpoints like slash actuator or let's say that we have changed it to slash

manage right.

We can add our own custom endpoint here.

Also how with this annotation at the right end point okay.

So over the class you just need to annotate at the endpoint ID equals to whatever the name you will

give.

So see this example.

So I have written one class like my custom stats endpoint.

Any name which you can give.

And this is a bean.

So you have to put at the root component.

Now all I have added is at the root end point ID equals to.

This is the endpoint.

I have added my hyphen custom hyphen stats.

So this will become slash actuator slash or slash manage slash this one My custom stats.

So this is the new endpoint.

Actuator endpoint I have added now.

Now within this class we can either have read operation.

It's equivalent to get.

We can have write operation equivalent to post.

And we can have delete operation equivalent to delete.

Okay within this class.

So now let's say that within this class I have exposed the endpoint I am adding read operation two read

operation.

So one is I am adding a method public string read all and I'm just returning.

Hello spring boot.

Okay so now I have annotated with add the read operation.

So this is a get.

So if you hit a get request slash actuator or slash manage whatever slash this endpoint my hyphen custom

hyphen stats that's all.

And this is a get call.

So which method it will invoke, it will invoke this method.

Okay.

So it will return.

Hello spring boot.

Similarly, I have added another method and annotated with at the read operation.

But here if you see that I have added some selectors, selector is more like.

After this one we can provide certain.

You can say that placeholder for that for name I can have let's say Shreyansh here message.

Hello.

Okay.

So you can say that after this your endpoint.

After this your endpoint.

These are selectors.

Selector one, selector two selector three which are in sequence.

And it should be matched with it in sequence.

Okay.

So now I have let's say slash actuator slash my custom strat slash I have put.

So this get mapped to this one.

Hello.

This get mapped to this one Okay so two selectors.

So it will pick a method.

And it's a get.

So it pick a read operation method and has two actuator uh two selectors.

So this method will get invoked.

And yes one more thing we have to add before running is.

So this is the custom endpoint.

We have to expose it also okay.

So you you if you are using selected one health comma info comma you have to provide here also.

Otherwise you can just simply put a star.

It will automatically get exposed.

Okay.

Now if I just hit slash manage uh because I have overwrite slash actuator.

So I'm using slash manage slash my custom stat.

So this is a get call and no selector.

So this method will get invoked.

Hello spring boot.

Now I am calling slash manage slash my custom endpoint.

Now this is selector one.

Selector two.

So it will pick one get.

So this is get called right.

It will pick some get read operation method which has two selector matching it name messages.

Both are string so it will get invoked.

Okay.

Similarly we have write operation and delete operation okay so this is post.

This is delete okay.

So return type can be anything.

It return type at anywhere.

You can have either string primitive Pojo whatever you want to return okay.

So write operation is also no difference in that delete operation.

No difference in that.

You can even have selectors also like this I am using.

So I have a refresh method annotated with right.

So any endpoint which is invoking post slash manage or slash actuator slash my hyphen custom hyphen

stats.

So this is a post no selectors.

So it will see that which method with write operation matches it.

So this will get matched and this code will get executed.

Similarly, if it is a delete HTTP method and slash manage slash my custom stat and the selector is

like key my key.

So it will see that okay, delete.

So it will look for all the method which are annotated with delete.

And then it will try to match the selector.

So one selector only which is string matched.

This will get executed.

Okay.

And also very important that Spring Boot considered this right.

And delete operation very critical okay.

So it requires authentication for that one.

If you have writing a custom endpoint and you are using write operation and delete operation right then

Spring Boot say that hey these are critical means it is changing something post and delete Okay, so

it specifically warned that you should have authentication for it.

So you can just simply add the same security filter, any request you want it to be authenticated.

That's all okay for if you are just using get read operation, even though you are not adding security,

you would be able to hit properly.

Okay, but if you are using write and delete operation specifically, you have to make sure that these

endpoints actuator endpoints or specifically let's say this where the write and delete operations are

present on this endpoint.

At least this should be authenticated.

Okay.

And again you have to make sure that you include this okay.

Or expose this or use a star okay.

And if you see that now if you are calling post my custom star start, you have to provide username

password because it has to be authenticated.

It got invoked.

Similarly delete this endpoint and one selector so it will match the method you have to provide.

Username password because we are authenticating here.

Basic authentication.

Okay.

So reset done.

It worked okay.

Very important part.

This is very important.

Adding a new custom endpoint actuator endpoint is very important because this is used by a lot of frameworks.

Let's say that even the refresh scope.

Okay in the centralized configuration that also uses it.

We will see that later.

But I just want to say that lot of Spring frameworks uses this functionality that they expose an endpoints.

And if we call them it do something okay.

And those endpoints are supported through this actuator.

Endpoints.

Custom endpoints.

Now one more important thing is hey, I got it.

Actuator.

Help us to provide the metrics and these metrics we can push to monitoring platform.

You can you know that there are so many monitoring platform.

One of the very popular is Datadog.

Another another is Prometheus CloudWatch I think CloudWatch is from Amazon okay.

So there are so many monitoring platforms available.

So we can push this data to this monitoring platform also.

So how see this might not be needed.

But this is you can say that in the companies they are using it okay.

So to understand the actuator you can say that you can skip it.

But I would say that within a company definitely you might be using some monitoring platform for your

application there.

You will see that Internally how it actually your application is putting the data into your monitoring

platform.

So now let's say in the data doc I'm using data Doc.

And currently I took a free trial of it.

Now in this one I goes to my this profile.

And here if you see that there is something called API keys within the API keys I created a new key

and copied it.

Now in the application dot properties I just added this management dot data doc dot matrix dot export

dot api key and I added this API key.

Okay.

So this is since this is a testing profile.

Okay.

So that's why I'm adding it here.

But it's never recommended to add a key like this in the application dot properties either add it into

environment variable.

But this is a profile just for testing.

Okay.

So you can uh add key.

I added the key like this here.

Okay.

Another thing is you have to enable the export.

True means that you are allowing the spring boot to push the data to the data dock.

Okay.

And another is that in which frequency is spring boot has to push the data.

So I put five second means every five second it will push the metric to the data dock.

And yes you need to add the dependency also.

So I added the dependency micrometer hyphen registry.

Hyphen Datadog.

So this dependency I have added okay.

And I added this application dot properties.

And in the Datadog profile you have created the key.

Use that key here.

Very simple.

Okay.

Now all the metrics of spring boot actuator now automatically pushed to the Datadog.

If you open a Datadog and here you see metrics.

Okay.

So here in the same one you will see the metrics, right.

So if you click the metrics you will see summary.

Explore volume and within a summary you will see a list of matrices.

So I open just one matrix like HTTP server dot request count.

If I open it you able to see certain graphs now.

So every time I invoke my application it's like a request I am making a request.

So it is like a count graph is that those data is get published to Datadog.

And this you will get certain graphs to visualize and monitor.

Okay.

So if you check out this summary you will see like so many hundred of matrices, you can choose the

matrix which you want to monitor and you can see your application health.

Okay.

Try it out.

It's very interesting like and lot of learning.

Okay.

But if you still have any doubt let me know.

We can discuss further.

Okay guys.

Thank you.

Bye.

--- ConfigurationProperties in-depth ---

Welcome back to the channel.

And today we will see that how configuration property is useful for us.

So but let's first see the problem.

Then we will come back to this topic.

So let's first see what the issue with the add the rate value annotation.

We have already covered this right.

So at the rate value is good for injecting a single property.

But it becomes problematic as configuration grows.

So we know that we have certain properties in application dot property file okay.

And with add the rate value we can inject that property into our Java code okay.

How like this.

Let's say I have a class Dbconnection okay.

And I have this field string username.

So they're in Application.properties there would be one config like app dot username, okay, and whatever

the value would be, so that I am injecting from my property file to this field like this.

Okay, so we have already covered this.

So we have to use this annotation at the rate value.

And then we have to use this placeholder and the property name what we have to inject okay.

Now the problem is that if there are let's say a group of configuration which you have to use, then

it's always 1 to 1 mapping.

So if you have to inject ten values, you have to do ten times at the rate value at the rate value at

the rate value.

Likewise.

Okay.

So one thing is it's too much duplication of add value annotation or duplication in the sense is not

like uh, same configuration.

I mean, you have to use a lot of this annotation.

Let's say if you know you are working in a big tech organization, definitely you know that 100,000

like these are very, very commonly faced challenge in these tech companies.

Like configuration continuously grows and lot of things are configuration driven itself.

Okay.

So we have a huge number of configuration.

Now if you have to do 1 to 1 mapping, just see how many times or how many places we have to use this

annotation okay.

So that is the first problem.

The second problem is there is no way to validate validate in the sense like I want to say that hey,

okay, this password which is coming from the application dot property, it should be present.

It should be greater than ten and less than 25 in size.

There is no way to validate or put restriction and top of it.

Okay, so once you have got the value from the application dot properties.

After that, you have to manually do the validation that whatever the value I receive, it's valid or

not.

Okay.

So consider this two major problem which at the root value has.

And now at the rate configuration properties comes into the picture.

Okay.

So now it would be easy to understand why at the rate configuration properties is very popular among

industry.

Okay.

So it maps configuration from Application.properties into Java object.

This is important not to a one field to a Java object.

Okay.

So it makes our configuration is structured, reusable and validated.

How?

Once you have the Java object, you can reuse it.

You can pass it to different classes.

Correct.

You can have validation on top of it.

How?

I will also tell you.

Okay.

So validation is very easy through annotations.

Okay.

And it's now a structured.

We have a proper Java like you can group together particular let's say these are my uh invoice configuration.

These are my sales configuration.

So you can group in a Java object like configuration depend upon certain logical grouping you can do.

Okay.

So we can create some structured configuration uh, which can be validated which can be reused.

So now see this example application dot properties.

So here I have certain configuration like user dot name, certain name, user dot user dot active.

So now how can I use it.

So now see this we have to create one Java class.

Okay.

So let's say I created one user configuration because I want to group all the configuration related

to user into one class okay.

Into one object.

So I created a class user configuration I annotated with at the root component.

So I am telling that hey spring you create an object for this.

Okay.

Now I am also adding the annotation at the configuration properties okay.

So whenever you add this annotation there is something called configuration binding.

So its task is to bind between application dot properties and your Java object.

Okay.

So it helps in binding.

Okay.

So now I am adding this annotation at the rate configuration properties.

And I give the prefix any property start with user.

So any property start with user is fall under this.

So it's like user dot stress.

So it will catch all.

And it will try to map each application dot property into this field.

Now.

Okay.

So now this is clear.

Now I have to create a field.

So one is like name.

So I created the exact same name okay.

So generally okay there is certain relaxation.

Let's say here you have is hyphen enabled something like this.

So you can here create is enabled camel case.

Okay.

So these are allowed okay.

You won't face any problem that if you have used underscore here or hyphen here you you can't use like

how you will use here.

You also have to use underscore here.

No okay.

So if you use a camel case properly it would be able to do proper mapping.

But I would always recommend that try to make a same name.

So same name so that the mapping would be like we are 100% sure okay.

Because see this mapping is not controlled by us.

It is done by configuration binding.

So it might be possible that uh, it not able to bind certain property.

Okay.

So now here, if you see that I keep the same name.

So this name would get bind to this one.

This age will get bind to this field and this active get bind to this boolean okay.

So now what will happen when you start an application when you start an application?

Let's say we have annotated with at the rate component.

So means spring will create an empty bean.

First it will create an empty bean.

We have already discussed the life cycle of a bean in the starting of the series, if you recall it.

Okay, so first spring create an empty bean because using default constructor.

Now once empty bean is created, now okay.

And now the configuration binding during application startup only I'm saying configuration binding.

What it will do is it will try to fill up these values.

So during empty bean these all have default values.

Name would be let's say null age would be zero.

active would be false.

These are all default values.

Same.

Okay.

Now configuration binding would bind.

Would read the application or property.

Okay.

And try to do the binding.

Okay.

Try to fill up this value.

Using what.

Using setter method.

Okay.

So we need to have a getter and setter okay.

Configuration binding.

Is you gonna use setter method to fill up these values using application dot properties.

Okay.

Since we have already done at the rate component, bean was already present.

But it's an empty bean means all it has default values and configuration binding.

Now calling setter method to update these values through application dot properties.

Okay.

Now whatever the user configuration class you have created or been you have created, you can simply

inject it into whichever class you want.

Okay.

And use like a normal Java object like I am using user configuration dot get h get name is active and

here you can see that I am able to print it.

Okay, so this is how simple it is now.

Also you can see that you can properly like group the configurations logical grouping.

You can do you can reuse it okay.

You don't have to create another class for you reusing it again and again once you have created it.

Now you can auto wired it anywhere in the code base you want okay.

One more advantage of this is that you can handle nested complex configuration nested complex.

Now here if you see the first thing this is simple.

We have already seen that.

Now see this to what I am doing here is user dot.

So this would be handled by my this configuration.

Okay here I have put at the right configuration properties prefix equals to user.

So this configuration or this class configuration binding would be used to handle all user dot stress.

Because this is the prefix user.

Okay.

So for now any configuration starting with user dot configuration binding going to use this class.

Now here if you see I have address dot city address dot country.

So means we can create address as an object.

And these two can be field inside it.

So that's where I have done.

Okay.

So here what I have done is I have created address config one nested class.

Okay.

Within this user configuration.

Within this class there is a nested class we are creating and okay, I gave a name address config and

it has two fields city and country.

So I have the same naming I have used.

So okay, it's getter and setter and getter and setter of all this one okay.

And one thing is that I have specifically made it static a static nested class you can think of like

why static?

Why not non-static?

If you remember in the Java series we have already covered this nested class.

Okay.

So nested class can be of static non-static okay.

So why specifically here we have to use static.

So the thing is how spring manages the bean.

So see this flow.

With that you will get an answer generally like why static.

We have to create okay.

In this case whenever we are trying to do configuration binding only in case I'm telling you, whenever

we are trying to do configuration binding.

Okay.

Um, in this case we always create a static nested class.

Reason is first string creates user configuration bean because it at the rate component.

So user will create this empty bean.

Okay.

Now it will see a field address configuration.

Okay.

So it now this let's see this.

Okay.

Now what it will do once it's create an empty bean.

After that I'm saying empty bean is created.

Now configuration binder got invoked.

Now it is using the setter methods to uh set name age active from the application dot properties.

Okay.

Now binder sees that, uh address dot config.

Now it has to Update the field of this.

Okay.

Now what it will do is it uses internally reflection and try to initiate the type address config using

the default no arg constructor.

So internally binding calls the.

So it has to create an object of first address config.

It has to create an object of this and after that it uses it calls it setter method.

Okay.

And to create an object of it it call the default constructor.

Default constructor okay.

Now understand that when you are not defining it static, let's say it is non-static.

What if you can recall from the from our Java series?

If you are following that whenever we create a nest uh, nested class and it's a non-static.

What is the default constructor?

Default constructor generally is your address config and it takes a parameter of your.

Parent class.

User configuration.

Let's say you see.

So this is the default constructor which generally added even though I haven't written this constructor

internally.

The default constructor it add is this not the default constructor with no argument?

This don't get added for the nested class for non-static, this is the default constructor added, and

if you can recall, we used to call it that hey, user configuration object dot new and then your address

config like this okay, so internally it always pass the reference of your parent object to here okay.

So one thing we are clear that when we are using non-static then default constructor which get added

is which.

Take a reference of the parent object.

Okay, but the binder reflection.

Try to invoke the no arg constructor.

Now if there is.

If this is non-static, no arg means constructor, which do not take any argument that doesn't even

exist, so it will not work.

Your binding will fail.

Your binding will fail.

Your binder will fail.

So that's why we have make it static.

So when you make it static means it is not associated with your parent class.

Okay.

And then the default constructor which got added is the no arg constructor.

Okay.

So your address config and the constructor which don't take any argument that will get added.

Okay.

And that's all here.

Binder able to work.

So that's why it is always created a static nested object.

Okay.

So yeah.

Now come back to this one.

Let's say I have a user inside this address dot user dot address dot country.

So what I did is I created address as an object and all later one it's a field inside a address.

Okay.

And since this is inside the user I created a nested static nested class okay.

And you can easily use it like there is like no problem at all.

Like how we are going to create an object.

Simple.

In that way you can use it.

So this is one way of handling the nested complex configuration.

Now we can also handle the configuration as list.

Okay, see this one.

Now we have already seen this one.

The simple one.

Object one.

So this is object.

This is simple direct mapping.

Now this is we are telling you the list okay.

So list.

I am telling you the two flavor list of string.

List of object.

So let's see first the list of string.

So let's say your configuration looks like this.

User dot role zero admin user dot roles one editor.

Likewise you have this.

So the same at the red component I want spring to create an object at the red configuration properties

and prefix user.

So all the anything is starting with user dot ultimately comes to this class.

Okay so name age active.

And this one we have already seen okay.

So this is its static nested class.

We have already seen.

Now this is the last one.

So what's the field name roles.

Okay.

And what values generally putting a string.

Okay.

So simply I put list of string and I put its getter and setter method.

Okay.

It will automatically bind zero one in the same order to this one.

Similarly here if you see user.

Now here I have codes zero dot name code zero enrolled.

True.

Similarly I have codes one dot name course one dot enroll.

Okay so now here if you see course you can visualize like course is an object which has name and enroll

fields.

And we have zero one.

So two objects of it.

Okay.

So it's an array of course.

So it's an array of object Okay.

So this is the example.

So now here if you see the list of codes now again the course would be static nested class.

So static nested class here in this one.

Okay.

So it is inside a user.

And I already told you why it need to be static.

Okay.

So now what two fields it has name and enroll.

So I have the same field name name and enroll its getter and setter and ultimately the getter and setter

for this one.

So it will be able to do proper mapping.

So here here I am using it.

User configuration dot get roles get zero get one.

It would be the same order.

You will get admin editor.

Similarly courses I am printing get codes, get zero its name and the get one get name.

So Java spring boot the same order.

Okay, so we can also bind the list in application dot properties to a list in Java object.

Similarly configuration as map.

Now here if you see see this one.

So we have already seen different uh here again this is just to remind this is simple direct mapping.

This is object.

This is your list.

And now we are seeing the map.

So now see this one user dot preference dot theme user dot preference dot user dot preference dot timezone.

Let's say your requirement is you want to store in a map is like theme dark language Ian.

So it's a string comma string.

Let's say you want to store like this Then even this, this.

Now you can say that here.

Can you see that can with any other way.

Can you handle it without even map.

So here if you see user dot.

So this class gonna this prefix class gonna handle it okay.

Now you see that preference dot theme preference dot language preference dot time zone.

You can say that hey I can create an object of preferences.

And these are all fields within a preference.

That's what we did for the object.

Yes you can do that also okay.

And if you want you can also handle through a map.

So this preference become your map name.

So here I created a map string comma string and preferences.

This become my map field name.

And this is key this value key value key value okay.

So now here if you see just getter and setter now it will bind like this.

Become your key.

This is value.

This is key.

This is value.

This is key.

This is value.

That is also possible.

But if you want to use as an object, create a nested class and static nested class and create a preference

as an object.

That is also possible like what we did for the address.

Okay.

But alternatively you can also create a key like this.

So this is your map field name and this is your become your key value.

And this is how I am able to use it.

So this is my map right.

Get preference.

Get key name theme okay.

So it works similarly map of an object.

So this is here.

If you see it's a map string comma string.

So we can also extend it to the map of an object.

So see this is an example User dot okay, so anything is starting with user going to ultimately to the

user configuration because that's the prefix.

So that's till now we are clear.

Now here if you see what the configuration look like locations dot home dot city locations dot home

dot country location dot office dot location dot office dot country.

Okay, so what do you see here.

So here if you see this location.

Can be our map field name okay so I created first thing is map field name okay.

Now here if you see this becomes my like string home office.

So my map is like.

Home.

And now I am creating an object which has city, country, city, country.

Okay, then I have a key office.

Then I have, let's say this is an object office dot city office dot country.

So I have an object which has this city country.

Okay.

So this is just like you can also handle through an object.

But I want to handle through a map.

So like this we can do that.

So this become my map.

Whatever the map I am going to create its field name.

Then these become my key.

And internally this become like an object which has this values.

So this is how I did it.

Like map string comma address config.

So here I already have an address config right from previous one.

Okay I already have a static nested class.

So address config has this city and country.

That's why I use the same field, city and country.

Okay, so I am creating a map of string comma address config.

So string gonna be this one either home or either office okay.

And address config has this city country okay.

And this location is the my field name.

That's all the getter and setter.

Now it will properly bind it.

So it will look for the map which has this name.

So it found this okay.

Then it will store the key.

This become your key home.

So it will create one home.

And then this city home dot city home dot country.

So this city and country it will see that okay address config is the object.

So it will get this object, bind this city and country and store it here.

So we can even create complex map objects also, and you can simply use it like this.

Normal.

How Java object is used to access the values.

Okay, you are able to get the location.

Okay, so till now it's clear that we can map even the complex configurations in our Java objects.

Either it's a list list of object map, map of object, normal object direct values, everything.

We can do that.

Now.

Another advantage is the validations.

Spring boot automatically validate fields after binding before the app fully starts.

So one thing is you have to add this dependency spring boot starter validation because this will add

enable certain annotations which we are going to use.

So first thing is we need to add at the rate validated annotation on top of our at the rate configuration

property class.

Okay.

And also remember that whenever any validation fail, application will not even start itself.

So see this example.

Now this is very simple one I created at the rate component.

I want spring to create a bean at.

The rate configuration property means after the empty bean is created by spring configuration, binding

will start its work and it will bind all the configuration starting with user to its fields.

Now I also put validated means all the annotations which I am going to add now that need to be validated.

Okay, so now here, if you see I have put at the rate not blank message and I give the messages name

must not be empty on the top of this name.

So now here, if you see what I'm trying to do, is adding a validation okay.

Whatever the value.

So first sequence is empty.

Been second is binding like binding is your property to object.

And the third is validation okay.

So validate what it will validate.

It will validate the value of these fields whatever the annotation we have to use okay.

Let's say that for the age I have used the annotation at the rate min value equals to one.

So means the minimum value of the age should be one.

Okay.

And for the testing purpose in application dot properties I have put zero okay.

So when you start an application itself it says that failed age cannot be zero.

Whatever the message you have given.

Okay, your validation fails.

So see how easy it is to validate the values which are coming from application.properties.

Okay.

And there are so many validations which we can use like at the rate not null.

You can use like this value cannot be null.

Not blank means not null.

Not empty okay.

So here like are not empty.

You can use it on top of list and map that it should have certain values at the rate min minimum value

at the rate max.

If you want to define what's the maximum value positive or you can use positive or zero.

It's like greater than zero.

Greater than equals to zero.

Similarly at the rate negative.

At the rate negative or zero less than zero or less than equals to zero okay.

So there are different regexes.

If you see that these are nothing but like hibernate if you, uh, have seen the hibernate validations.

Right.

It is very similar to that one internally.

Actually, it used that only.

Okay.

So if you are familiar with hibernate we have seen the hibernate validations also previously okay.

So it's very similar to that one only.

Now last thing would be like one question comes to your mind okay.

One doubt.

What we are saying is currently till our sequences we are creating an empty bean.

Why?

Because we have used at the rate component.

This is very important.

So see the sequence and then see the answer also.

The second thing is we are saying configuration binding configuration binding.

What it will do is it will use the setter method.

And invoke the setter method to update update the fields using application dot properties.

Now what if I have to make my configuration class immutable?

Okay, generally this is the how the interviewer asks the interview question.

Generally that how you can make your configuration properties class immutable.

Okay, because let's say you have given an answer through at the rate component one, then definitely

the sequence is going to be like this.

First been would be created, and after that configuration binding has to invoke the setter method to

update the values.

And whenever you have a setter method, definitely it's not an immutable class.

Immutable class means once you have defined the value, it cannot be changed.

Okay, but if this is the how we are doing this currently, it is definitely not immutable.

Why?

First, during empty bin, let's say age is zero.

Then during configuration binding it calls the setter method it update it with the whatever the property

value it has.

Let's say I have defined 27.

So you are changing it.

Definitely.

It's not an immutable.

So now the question of the ask question intention is how you can make this configuration class immutable

generally, which is very important.

Once you read the configuration from the properties it should not be changed by anyone.

So this is very, very important.

And this is how actually it's used in the industry.

It should be immutable.

So answer is constructor binding okay.

So see this how we can do that.

Very very simple okay.

But very minor.

You can say that uh observation here what we are doing.

So first I created earlier the class name was user configuration.

I just changed the name to immutable user configuration.

Nothing.

Same thing.

Okay, now here I make the all the fields final.

Now constructor binding as the name says.

So we're gonna be using constructor when the object is first time object is going to get created at

the time of creation of the object itself I am going to initialize this.

So immutable user configuration I'm creating a constructor and all the fields.

Okay.

And that gonna initialize at the time of object creation itself okay.

So it's not first like you are going to create an empty bin or no.

Whenever somebody has to create an object it has to pass this value.

And at the time of object creation itself these values would be set.

Okay.

So this is gonna be the thing.

And then here I have only getter methods no setter method.

Now see what things we needed.

One thing you notice that there is no at the rate component, I removed it.

Why?

Because as soon as you put at the rate component means you are telling spring that, hey, you manage

the creation of an object.

Okay?

And when spring going to manage the creation of an object.

Spring doesn't know how to or what value I need to provide here.

What value I need to provide here, what name I need to provide here, what age I need to provide,

what active I need to provide here.

Okay.

So spring or you can say that spring IOC Inversion of control doesn't know how to invoke this constructor.

What value I need to pass.

So at the rate component that's why I removed it okay.

And I gave this responsibility to configuration Binding itself.

Okay.

Earlier configuration binding sees that.

Hey.

Okay.

Whatever the user configuration I have, its object is already present.

Yes.

Object is already present.

Yes.

Then call the setter method to update the values.

Now we just need to tell that hey, you also have to take the responsibility of creation the object

also.

Okay.

And that's we do by like this.

In our main class application class, we have to tell at the rate configuration properties scan.

So whenever you add this configuration, whenever you add this annotation at the configuration properties

scan what we are telling to the configuration binding that hey, I am giving the responsibility to you

to create an object for this configuration class property class also.

Okay, so I am not relying on a spring.

I am giving the responsibility to configuration binding itself that you create an object.

Okay.

And when it scan for it so it knows.

So it first read application dot properties.

Okay.

And then when it find this object find this class it need to invoke its constructor.

It will do the binding okay.

What value is that.

It has to pass.

Now it knows because it has read from application dot properties.

Okay.

So at the time of creation of a new object this value would be set okay.

And there are no setters.

And these are final.

So now our class is immutable.

So these this is the only change know at the rate component.

You only got.

Why.

Because spring doesn't know what value I need to pass okay.

So that's why spring won't be able to create an object of it.

So that's why we.

I have removed it at that component.

I don't want to give you the responsibility.

And who knows what value to pass is configuration binding because it reads the application property.

So this is how we tell okay at the configuration properties can on top of your main class application

class.

Okay.

But you might be thinking hey earlier why it's not an issue earlier.

Whatever.

We are doing it when it is not immutable.

See earlier it's not an issue because even though we have used at the rate component okay there we have

default constructor, default constructor which is no our constructor.

So our spring inversion of control can create an empty bean.

Create an empty bean by calling a no arg constructor.

So that's why at the rate component was working properly, it able to create an object through calling

the default constructor.

Okay.

And then configuration binding calling setter method to update it.

But here in the immutable, since we don't have setter method okay.

And we don't have this default constructor.

No.

Or constructor okay.

So that's why at the right component will not work.

And that's where configuration bindings comes into the picture.

Okay.

And here if you see it worked properly our immutable objects work properly.

And also there is no difference in the validation of the field like how we used to validate the field.

Like at the rate minimum, uh, at the rate not null like in uh, non-mutable class, like similarly

in for the mutable.

Also, it's the same thing you can use above the field itself.

Okay.

I hope this is clear at the rate configuration properties.

If there is any doubt, let me know.

We can discuss further in the comment section.

Okay guys.

Bye.