# Retry Pattern : Fault Tolerance in Distributed Microservices

Before I start, I just want to say that that retry, if in not properly implemented, it has more disadvantages
than advantages.
We will get to know why.
So in distributed system, call to downstream service might fail because of transient issues.
Transient issues means that short temporary issue like network issue, timeout, etc. and retry of same
request after a short delay can get succeed.
Okay, so one question might comes to you that hey still why we should do retry?
Why can't user or client can invoke our API again.
So let's say that this is our client.
This is our component order.
And we have an API.
And we are invoking another API of let's say product component.
And there is some transient issue while invoking it.
So what we are saying is so transient issues.
If we retry it, it can get succeed.
So we can do a retry for this invocation.
So the question is that hey why we need to retry.
Why can't client again invoke the API.
So that automatically it will invoke the product API again.
Why we have to retry ourself.
So see the answer is for each call lot of heavy processing is done and it's not free of cost, memory,
time, resources, etc. everything like it's there is some cost incurred.
So say you have invoked client at first invoke an API.
90% of the API implementation is completed.
Task is completed.
Only 10% is left.
And then it invoke this product API and the transient issue happen.
Let's say, uh, network timeout happen.
So is it a good idea to dispose of this 90% of the task which is done?
No.
Right.
We if we can just simply retry this, and if it gets succeeded, then only 10% tasks have to be done.
Otherwise, if we ask client to retry again, our API hit again, our API again we will do the same
90% task again.
So redundant of the work is there, duplicate of the work is there and it will increase our cost and
it's not free of cost to be honest, right?
So with above understanding we know that retry is important, right?
I think I hope this point will tell you that why retry is important?
Because we don't want to do the same 90% task again.
Okay.
And I'm just saying this is just one client.
If there are hundred clients For this API and they are all invoking and there are thousands of calls.
So you are saying that you are doing a lot of wasting your, uh, capacity on just duplicate tasks which
you have already completed.
So we know that retry is important, but the question is when to retry.
How to retry.
Very, very important question.
When to retry.
First of all is do not retry on permanent failures.
Permanent failures is like no matter how many times you will retry, it will always fail.
Like for errors.
So for errors generally are in the category of validation error.
Validation error.
Validation error means the input request input request which client has passed has is not correct.
Until unless client will not change, the input validation error will not remove.
So if you retry with the same request previously, again you will see a validation error.
So generally these are known as permanent failure for xx.
Do not retry if operation is non patent.
What does it mean.
So hydro patency makes sure that if request is retried multiple times duplicate processing will not
happen.
So say you have a service A which invokes the create API of service B okay.
So it has invoked it.
And while service B writes into its DB but it takes certain time okay.
And here it says that timeout happen and timeout happens.
So for service A the request has been timeout.
But service B internally inserted the row into the DB.
Now since this is a timeout and user has retried.
So this is a retried again.
Now here service B be?
Insert the row again.
Id2.
Earlier it was already inserted.
Id1.
Now it is Id2.
So here.
This is not my intention.
My intention was not to create a duplicate row for the same request.
Okay, so we can say that this this API, the API of the service be this create API is not idempotent.
Okay.
So that's why we say that do not retry if operation is not idempotent.
Otherwise you will end up in creating duplicate resources.
So if you do not know how to design idempotent APIs, I have already covered it into the high level
design playlist.
Uh, in depth.
Like what are the challenges, how we can come up with the API design?
So have a look in case you have a doubt.
Okay, so but here one thing is we don't have to retry if operation is not repeated.
The third is that rule of thumb says that retry only on five x error.
What five x error says that it is system error.
Your input request.
Input request is good.
Okay.
All validation passed.
But there is some limitation in system or some issue happen in the system because of that error has
happened.
So generally these are considered as retry error.
Okay.
So it is safe to retry on this because this is first of all system error.
And also it says that it request is not successful means the previous request five X means request is
not successful.
Okay.
So that is also one.
Give us a you can say that uh relief that yeah previous request is not successful.
And we can retry as many times.
So there is no harm okay.
And five X has already know that input request is correct.
No validation errors, but there is some issue with the system.
So with retry it is possible that it might get resolved.
So that is one.
And another thing is retry network uh network error and timeout error.
We have to retry, but only make sure that whatever the API it should support auto patency.
So this is a retry decision table.
Like based on HTTP code you can decide whether you have to retry or not.
So these are not complete lists.
Just an idea.
Let's say 200 request is already success.
You don't have to retry like 400.
Bad request unauthorized forbidden 404 not found.
So these are you can say that validation error.
No matter how many times you will retry, you will always get retry failure uh, failure itself.
Right.
So you don't have to retry on this.
So 4 to 9 you can say that one of the exception, like 4 to 9, means too many requests.
So it generally happens when the rate limiting.
So for that we can do retry with some delay.
Then we have 500 internal server error 502 bad gateway 503 service unavailable.
These are like uh you can say that retry issue like uh service unavailable.
Maybe it was down.
And if you retry, it might be up and it request can get succeeded.
So for all this we can do retry.
And if there is a network error timeouts you can always retry.
Yes.
But make sure that it should be independent.
Okay.
So this is just a quick glance that based on HTTP status code, you decide whether the retry can be
done or not.
Now how to retry.
So see this is very important part.
So let's see.
First types of retry and when.
And then we will see how to implement it also.
So first is fixed interval retry.
So what does fixed interval retry says that retry after a constant delay.
So within each retry the delay is constant.
So say that the attempt total attempt is four.
So when we say total attempt means original one call plus three retries.
So total four.
Okay.
So after original call there has to be a fixed delay.
Like let's say my fixed delay is two second.
So it would be like after two second first retry will happen.
Then it will wait for two second then second retry will happen.
Then it will wait for two second then third retry will happen.
So there is a fixed interval of delay within the retries.
So let's say this is the original call which happened at two.
So first retry happen at four, then second retry will six.
Third retry at eight.
So each one has two two seconds gaps here.
So advantage of this is it is very very simple easy to configure and debug also.
But this is main disadvantage is that higher chance of retry storm which is also known as thundering
herd problem.
Thundering herd problem means many clients retry at the same time, causing a surge of retry traffic
and system spend resources on retries instead of handling new requests.
So understand with this is that.
Say that you have a load balancer and you have, let's say component service a service a multiple instances
instance one, instance two, instance three, and load balancer distribute the traffic between the
instances of service.
A there are so many clients client one, client N and the traffic is also huge.
Now let's say that a buggy code has been introduced into the service a and it is.
Start throwing some exception.
And if client start doing retry also since already it's a heavy traffic and for that they are all started
doing retry at a fixed delay.
So all are retrying.
So original request.
Let's say there are 1000 request original.
Now after two second delay.
Retry one will happen.
Okay.
So everyone will do retry 1000 requests again after two second delay.
Retry two.
They again do a retry okay.
So these are just retry traffic whatever the normal traffic new request is coming.
That is different.
So means your system is now get bombarded with the retry traffic.
And it is possible that while you are only servicing retry traffic, you somehow decline the new request
which is coming.
That is also possible.
Okay, so if you remember like in the playlist, I have already covered Thundering Herd problem like
it is one of the frequently asked interview question.
So if you want to know more about Thundering Herd problem, you can check it out.
But yeah, this is one of the disadvantage is that if all the clients retry at the same interval, it
is possible that the retry traffic become huge and it can cause thundering herd problem.
So fixed interval is clear.
Then we have exponential backoff.
So what does exponential backoff says.
That delay Increases exponentially.
So currently earlier you are delaying at this time.
Then this time, then this time, not at fixed rate, not after two seconds.
This is two second not at fixed.
So it increases with the time.
And this is the formula for it.
So the formula says that you pick some base delay that.
Yeah minimum base delay is my 100 millisecond into two raised to power.
This is the factor.
You can say that this is also configurable factor raised to power number of failed retry attempt okay.
So consider that total attempt is four means one original call and three retries.
And my base is 100.
So the formula says that the first retrieval.
So let's say original call happen at uh zero zero milliseconds.
Say so first retry will happen at 100 which is our base delay into And the factor which I have given
is, let's say this factor I have given is two for now, two raised to power.
Previous number of failed retry attempt.
Currently this is the first retry itself.
So zero retry attempt has failed.
So currently it is zero.
So this is first retry happen at.
So original call happened at zero millisecond.
First retry will happen at 100 millisecond.
Second retry will happen at 100 base into whatever the factor you have told.
Let's say I have told two raised to power number of failed retry attempt.
So till now only one retry attempt failed.
So it's one.
So retry will happen at 200 millisecond third retry will happen at 100 into two.
Raised to power.
Number of failed retry attempt two.
Till now two retry has been done.
So two ratio of two 400 millisecond.
So now here if you see the delay time is exponentially increases 100 200 400.
Next you will see 800.
Like this.
So advantage is that it reduces the load on downstream service during outage.
Let's say that this service become.
This service become down.
If we increase the delay they also get some breathing time to recover it.
Unnecessary.
If you put the load of the retry also plus the original request.
Also the it might take some more time to recover for the component.
And it also helps to avoid thundering herd problem to some extent.
Right?
Since they are not retrying at a constant time its delays.
So thundering herd problem.
You can say that uh, to some extent it reduces, but does it reduce fully?
No.
There is still a risk of thundering herd because see, this is the formula.
What if your base is my base?
All the clients select the same base and same factor, then they will retry at the same time itself.
So there is because there is no randomness, right?
So there is still a chance of thundering herd problem.
And also if outage period is short, user might wait some longer time.
So let's say that this shortage is resolved at 500 millisecond.
After 500 millisecond this outage was resolved, but after 400 millisecond the delay was 800.
Only after that it will retry.
So there is.
Even though the issue was resolved, it still added some latency, right?
The outage period is short.
User might wait longer than needed.
So this is one of the disadvantage.
So there is one.
Another version of it is like exponential backoff plus jitter.
Jitter means some randomness similar to exponential backoff, but add jitter or randomness to delay
or to.
You can say that to avoid retry stomps.
Now see exponential backoff already.
Uh, increases the delay time exponentially, right?
But only thing which missing is randomness.
So this jitter helps to retry reduce the retry stomps.
So this is its formula.
We have to choose a random number.
Between random between.
Zero comma.
Minimum of maximum delay.
What.
What is the maximum delay we can have.
Let's say no exponential backoff.
So it's not like let's say you have for example I'm just saying you have 100 retry.
So it's not like it continuously increases your time and all.
No there should always be limit right after a limit.
This is the maximum wait time.
Let's say uh, five second is the maximum delay time.
More than that, you can't go increase if you more than increase if you're with the formula, if it
gives you the value of more than five second, always use five seconds.
So this is the max limit.
So here is the same random.
You have to choose a random between zero comma minimum of the maximum delay or.
This is our exponential backoff formula okay.
So now we have bring some randomness.
So again random between zero comma minimum of maximum delay which we can wait comma your exponential
backoff formula one.
So between this it now pick some delay value.
And now since this is random You can say that, uh, it spread the retries over time, reduce peak load
and thundering herd issue is prob happening of this issue become very less because of this randomness.
The disadvantage is it's not easy to debug and it's little complex.
And the last type of retry is custom interval.
Like you define your own retry logic.
Hey I want retry to be like 11235 like this okay.
So first retry should wait for one one millisecond, then another one millisecond, then two millisecond,
then three millisecond, then five, then eight.
Like this.
So you can define your own custom logic, how you want to do a retry.
That is also possible.
So we have full control and flexibility.
But disadvantages you have to maintain you have to maintain it.
So you have to write the logic.
You have to maintain it.
The framework will not help you in this.
