Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in Spring Boot I will be covering the second level caching.
Very very important very frequently used in the Big Macs.
Also it's not just like it's a concept, it's used actually in production level codes also.
So before I start, this is the prerequisite.
Like if you know the architecture of JPA and the first level of cache, but those who haven't seen the
first level of cache, I will just give in a couple of minutes, give the quick overview of the first
level caching.
So in the first level caching, you already know that these are the basic setup.
Like we have created one controller where we have post mapping, get mapping.
We have a service class which talks to the repository.
In repository we have extend the JPA repository you already know in depth like uh why uh what's the
API, what are the method IT support.
And here, if you see that this is one entity which we have created.
Okay.
Now in if you can recall from the first level of caching, whenever you make a new request, a new entity
manager object get created.
And for each entity manager object or one persistence context which is helpful in the first level of
caching is happened.
So that's what I am doing here when I'm making a first HTTP request insert call.
Okay, so we see a Insert query executed properly.
Now when I make a second call get call.
What happened here.
If you see another Select query happened okay.
Now here if you see I make another get call.
Another get call means another new request.
New request means new entity manager object.
Okay.
So here in this case you see another Select query.
So there is no first level caching is applied here means there is no cache hit happening.
Why?
Because whenever any new call happens, a new entity manager object is created.
And for each entity manager object we have a different persistence context.
Okay, so that's why you are not able to see any cache hit between here, even though it's the same
two times I am doing a get call.
Okay, so every time I make a new request, new object is created and it has its own persistent context.
It is not aware of this one where this object is present okay.
So it's not aware of this.
It is only aware of its persistent context since it is not there.
It hit the DB.
It make a new Select query.
Okay.
But if if you are using the same get call and same Entitymanager if you are doing first get and then
second time get, then the first time get it make a DB, call it.
Put the object here the second time this object same persistence object is used, so it would be cache
hit same entity.
Manager object means same persistence context object would be used and the second time since the object
is present cache, it would happen okay.
And with every HTTP request new entity manager object was created.
And that was the reason why we are seeing this behavior okay.
So this is all about the first level caching.
I have explained it in depth.
If you find this little bit in hurry first level caching because we have already covered in depth in
the previous video.
Now since we have recalled a bit, now let's move to the second level caching, which is L2 caching.
Also, many times in industry you will hear engineers are saying, hey, what about L2 caching?
What data is there in L2 caching?
Second level caching is known as L2 caching.
And what generally happen in this is here.
So till between this persistence context and db.
Now there is one more layer comes which is your second level caching.
So whenever any call comes okay Entitymanager object is created.
It has its own persistence context.
Now before it looks for db it again another layer.
So you consider this L1 and this as L2.
So now it checks second level caching.
Hey that data is present here or not, data is present here or not.
So even though you are hitting multiple requests, different requests, different objects, different
persistence contexts, but they are sharing a same second level caching now.
So even for this, there is a chance that we are increasing the chance that the cache will increase
because this is also in memory.
So this is also fast, but only difference is it is shared among different persistence contexts.
Okay.
And then ultimately goes to the DB.
And whatever the data comes from DB it first go you can say that goes to L2 cache and then L1 cache
and then out.
Okay.
So let's see one happy flow and see what all it takes to enable the second level caching.
If I want to enable it how we can do it.
So first thing we have to add the dependencies.
So we have to add these three dependencies okay.
Edge cache.
Hibernate J and J cache API.
Okay, you can check out the latest version which is applicable for Spring Boot three dot x version,
which we are using.
So you can check out the latest version of this, which is uh, applicable for this spring boot version.
And we can use it.
But this three dependency, we need it.
Why we need that.
I will tell you, but I am just telling you very quick overview.
We will go one by one each and will tell you.
But first thing is we required Pom in application dot properties, we have to enable certain configurations
like second level caching.
True like we are enable the cache uh second level caching.
But don't worry about this.
So this is the second changes we need.
First you have added dependency.
Second in application dot properties we have enabled some configuration here in the service layer.
No change.
Right.
It is the basic.
Like your repository.
You are just calling the repository.
Nothing.
No change.
Then you have repository.
No change.
Okay, then after that you have your entity.
So in the entity you will see this part.
At the rate cache.
Okay.
So we are it.
We are just telling the hibernate that do a second level caching for this entity okay.
Whenever this request comes for this entity or whenever anybody is working on this entity, before touching
to DB, first check in l2, l2 cache.
Okay, we will see that.
What does it mean region and all.
And here if you see again don't worry about this.
What's the purpose of each one.
We one.
We will go one by one each.
But here if you see palm application dot properties and this three no change.
Fourth, no change.
How we were using only fifth is like you have to put at the rate cash, which is like we are telling
hibernate that we have to put a second level cash or this entity user details.
That's all.
Now here, if you see first step I am doing an insert data is directly inserted into DB.
No cash insertion or validation happens.
So I am calling a post operation and data is inserted.
So first happen.
Second do I am making a one get call?
Okay, whatever the data is inserted, I am doing a get call.
Since this is the first get call cache, miss will happen and DB call will be made.
So what would be the sequences?
Get entity manager.
It will check its persistence context.
It will check second level caching and then check DB.
So data is present in two persistence contact.
No data is present in L2 caching.
No because during insert.
Also no data is inserted into L2.
So it will hit a db and then it will put into L2, put into L1 and then ultimately goes out.
Okay.
So this is the second call where if you see that cache miss happened and it make a DB call, and then
it will also caching data from load.
So it will also load the data.
Now the third time I am making a get call.
Now this time data is present into L2.
It don't have to goes into db itself okay.
Okay so this is a new get call means new get call means new entity manager object.
And since it's a new entity manager object.
New persistence context.
So data was present into this one.
But this is a new request.
So new persistence context.
So there is no hit from the first L1.
But L2 is same for multiple persistence context.
Now it will check L2 data is present into L2 right from the previous call.
So it would be cached and no db hit required.
So here if you see cache hit happened during the second.
Okay.
So this is very one functional flow for the second level caching.
Now let's see why and what all things are required.
What is the purpose for that.
So in Pom.xml I told you that we need three dependencies okay.
So here if you see first one is all dot cache and the version provide the core implementation of second
level caching.
So here if you see right there are multiple cache e cache caffeine cache hazelcast okay.
So which provider you want to use for the second level caching.
Okay.
We want to use one.
I am going with the cache.
You can also go with the caffeine cache.
Doesn't matter.
Okay.
Because we don't have to go inside the working of this.
Why?
I'll tell you now because of this second.
So this was first and now this is let's say second.
What is this cache hyphen API.
So this is like a interface okay.
It expose all the API, let's say get cache.
I'm just saying that create cache okay.
And they provide the implementation for it.
So we are only interested in invoking the API.
Okay.
And this APIs are the interfaces which are implemented by this second level cache providers.
Okay.
So that's why we have to bring this dependency also, which says that this is the interface which your
hibernate code can interact with so that in future if you change from cache to caffeine, your code
will not impact at all because you are dealing with the interface.
Who is the provider?
It can change.
Okay.
So this is to bring this API interfaces.
This dependency is required.
Now this is the third which is required.
So this is our hibernate code.
Now this hibernate has to talk to this API.
And there are many annotations like at the rate cache like there are like at the rate uh like Concurrency
strategy.
Cache concurrency strategy.
There are so many specific annotation and variable fields we are going to use for caching.
So those are understand by hibernate J cache.
So you can consider it as a bridge bridge between hibernate and the J interface APIs.
Right.
So it provide a bridge that okay whatever the annotation you are adding specifically for caching this
understands it and I hibernate knows how to talk with hibernate J okay.
So that's why the name hibernate Hyphen j cache, so considered as a bridge between Hibernate and Hibernate,
can't directly knows that when to create or create cache.
When to call get cache when to call put cache.
No, but this knows.
So you can consider this consider as an orchestrator, like based on the value which you are using during
caching.
Let's say I am using read write.
I am using read only what method to call what validations to add.
It can have it.
Okay, so considered as a bridge between hibernate and cache which understand how to talk with the cache
APIs.
Okay, so these three are required.
So no matter what you need cache API you need hibernate.
But here you can instead you can use cache or you can use caffeine or Hazelcast whichever you want based
upon your need you can change it.
So first thing is clear, right?
Why this three dependency in Pom.xml required?
Now let's understand the application dot properties.
So this is the first configuration we have to enable.
By default second level cache is false Okay.
So we have to enable it to true.
Okay.
Once we enable it then only second level cache is start functioning.
Then only like it will all these things comes into the picture.
Otherwise no.
The second is your region region factory class.
But before understanding the region factory class, we need to first understand what is region.
Okay.
So let me tell you.
In short, like what is region?
Then I'll tell you why we need to set the factory class.
So region helps in logical grouping of cached data.
Logical grouping.
For each region we can apply different caching strategy like what is the eviction policy like Fifo,
Fifo, LRU, whatever.
Okay, uh, last in, first out, first in, first out, least recently used.
So whatever eviction policy you want to use, You can apply to different region wise time to live for
the cache data.
What is the cache size like?
How many entries you can store in a cache like 1100 200?
And what is the concurrency strategy?
Okay, so here if you see an example this is one entity user details.
And this is I am creating another entity order detail.
Okay.
Now here if you see I am enabling at the rate cache annotation.
So now you know that at the cache this is some cache specific annotation which is aware of aware by
hibernate J cache.
It knows what to do.
And we have also enabled second level caching.
So it comes into the picture.
Now here if you see that what region we have given is user detail cache.
So consider that one region is user detail cache.
And for order what region I have given is order detail cache.
All detail cache.
Okay so here it stores this entity.
User details.
User details entity.
It takes care of order details.
Entity.
Multiple entities.
It can group like which I want to group inside this region.
And multiple entities which are group want to group inside this region.
We can give any name of the region.
Now here if you see either in application dot properties or generally I feel comfortable with each dot
XML like specific file which we can put in source main resources and provide this configuration.
Okay, for this catch alias user detail cache means this this region okay.
This region.
What is the in memory.
How many how many entries you want to put?
What is the TTL for the data which is stored?
What is the eviction strategy you want to use.
So no matter how many entities you are grouping together, all this strategy like eviction, TTL and
your memory would be applicable for this, but may be possible that for the order one you want different,
you don't want the same.
So here I have TTL for 60s.
Here you want TTL for 500 seconds.
Let's say okay.
So that's why it's a logical grouping for each region.
You can provide this one.
So for order you can give time to live is 200 seconds.
I want 1000 entries for this one.
And the strategy is Fifo.
So region provide you more granular way you can manage your cache okay.
And the second property says that region factory class.
Who is going to manage that J region factory.
So now here, if you see that this hibernate cache also has factory class.
Okay.
And also this cache also has factory class.
If you want to directly work with this like hey you take care of managing all the cache directly, then
you can directly use cache.
But I would always say that it's better that if you use hibernate J cache, because in future if you
change from cache to caffeine, you don't have to change lot of codes because this all work with interfaces
beneath the provider can change over the time.
Okay, so here I have used J cache region factory, this one which is present by hibernate JK.
So this manage everything like Insertion like get cash, create cash.
It manages the region proper region.
So for this region, what is the TTL?
What is the cache eviction policy.
So it will take care of it.
But if you want to use directly you can use directly also.
But that again it comes with like benefit is there.
You don't have like abstraction you are directly working.
But you know the disadvantage.
Also like if future you have to change you might have to change the code also a lot.
Okay.
So.
You can define the factory class which will take care of your management of the cache data.
Okay.
The third one is the provider like caching provider.
So even though we have added the dependency but this like you have added the cache, we need to tell
the spring boot that which provider I am using just by adding the dependency in Pom uh, in this case
hibernate.
JC Zcash doesn't know which provider it has to use.
So we have to set this configuration that, hey, I want to use Zcash caching provider so that whenever
it calls get cache, it creates an object for this one.
And it invokes Zcash.
So similarly you can uh add differently if you are working with different cache provider okay.
So these three are important.
This is just for debug.
So that whenever we hit a query uh we will something to print out if insert query select query so that
we can see.
But this three only is application dot property is important.
Okay.
Now let's say different cache concurrency strategy.
Now here if you see if you have focus on the entity object we have put at the rate cache.
At the rate cache is like uh hibernate hyphen.
Uh J cache knows that this is used for second level caching and we have to cache this entity.
Okay, in the L2 cache.
But there is something called usage equals to catch concurrency strategy.
There are four types of concurrency strategy.
Read only read write non strict read write transactional.
So which one you want to use depends upon business to business.
So I'll tell you what is this catch concurrency strategy is.
Read only.
Let's go with the first read only.
But in short, if I give you a definition of catch concurrency strategy, I would say that, uh, this
will guide how your operation insert, update, delete or impact your cache data.
Okay.
So, so that they can work in parallel without, uh, you can say that it's possible that in some business
use cases, stale data is possible.
So you select a proper strategy.
In some business scenario, stale data is not even applicable.
It should not have happened.
Then we have to pick up appropriate strategy.
So concurrency strategy is like how you maintain handle the concurrent request like get update delete
is coming.
Then you have the data in the cache in the DB how you want to handle it.
So let's go ahead with the first one.
Read only.
Good for static data.
Data which do not require any updates.
Any updates?
Not even I'm saying less update any update if you try to update an entity, exception will come.
So see this like here in the request controller I have put another put mapping just to make sure that
I will also update some data.
This is service where I am updating with the existing ID.
I am first fetching the data and then I'm saving it so it will try to update it.
Repository.
And here ultimately entity and the entity I am using read only.
Now first let's say I have done insert okay insert directly put a data into db user detail.
Let's say then I am doing get.
When you are do a get first cache miss will happen, then it will hit DB and then it will put the data
into L2 cache also.
So user detail let's say one here.
User detail one here.
This is your L2 cache and this is your DB.
Now I am trying to do a put call.
I am trying to do a put call.
But here I have put read only this entity user detail entity is read only.
So now when I call a put request what I got internal error.
What says that you can't update read only object.
Okay.
So here if you see who has this logic hibernate.
Uh, this 16.5.2 like hibernate just knows that.
Understand this cache concurrency strategies.
This one.
Okay.
Then we have a read.
Write.
Now there are use cases where you have a scenario where multiple reads update delete can happen in parallel
and you want to manage those.
So this might be applicable.
And also it's scenario like where you don't want stale data to be written also.
So this is better.
In that case.
Let's say during read it put a shared lock.
So other read can also acquire shared lock but no write operation.
So now let's say that you have L2 cache.
You have DB, you have user detail one here.
User detail one here.
Now get call one is happening.
Get call two is happening.
It put a lock internally on the cache but it is not blocking other get calls also.
So read call can happen multiple read call.
So they can do a cache.
At multiple cache.
It can happen.
Nobody is stopping anybody.
But it will not allow any write operation.
But any write operation comes.
Let's say put it will stop it okay.
Because till the lock is present, read call and during update It put kind of a exclusive lock where
read and write operation are not allowed.
So here, if you see that whenever any update happen, what happen is understand this scenario.
What happen is how it handles this.
This one is simple.
Whenever you do a insert directly goes to the DB cache.
Not even comes into the picture.
L2 cache only comes into the picture once we do a first get call.
Okay, then you do a get call.
L2 cache comes into the picture cache miss happen goes to the db, then it load into the L2 cache and
then kind of uh return it.
If there is a cache it happen directly return from here.
No need to go to the DB.
Now let's say update is happening.
What it does.
So now let's say you have a data into L2 cache.
You have a data into DB one put call.
Update call is happening.
You have entity one here.
Entity one here.
How it will make sure that how it will update it, how it will make sure that any get call is happening
in parallel.
It do not read the stale data.
So as you know that any update let's say transaction begins first it will do is acquire lock on cache
it prevent stale data, read from cache.
No read and write allowed after that.
So once it has taken the lock, acquired a lock on this entity, what it will do, it will make it invalidate.
So there is a flag here inside this cache data.
It make it invalidate okay.
After that it will update its DB whatever the update required.
Let's say e1 is changed to E1 hash something.
If it commit properly okay, then it will update the cache data with the latest data and remove the
invalidated flag.
So now while returning, it will update the cache here in the L2.
Also L1 hash and remove the invalidated flag.
Now this is also valid.
And then it will release the lock on the cache.
Now it will release the lock on the cache.
But if there is any rollback happen if there is any rollback happen what it will do is it will just
release the lock on cache.
It won't remove the invalidated flag.
Okay.
So now let's say that L2 cache it was entity one DB entity one during put call it would make it invalidate.
And while processing some issue happens and it rollback transaction got rollback.
So it it just remove the lock.
So it put a lock right.
It acquired the lock.
It will just release the lock on the cache but it will not remove this invalidated flag and no updation
will happen.
So now, in future, any get call will come as since the lock is released, any get call will come.
It will see that hey, it is marked as invalidated.
It will read from the DB and then it will ultimately update the cache again.
Okay, so this is how internally update logic is written.
So this is very important.
Like uh sometimes during rollback.
See most of always one thing is the cache is sometimes it's a best effort call best effort.
Some sometimes you are able trying to write it but fails.
You are trying to update it but fails.
So we should not fail the transaction itself when transactions are very expensive, right?
We should not fail the transaction itself that okay, my DB is also updated.
Everything is done properly but I'm not able to update the cache.
So let me fail the transaction.
No.
So that's why sometimes cache are best effort.
So now here generally when you invalidate the cache and let's say even if the commit happened properly,
now you are updating the cache.
If some failure happened during update okay.
And it will release the lock.
Then also it's not an issue because you have already marked as invalidate.
If it is not update properly happen any future call happen get call it see the invalidate it will do
a fresh read from DB and later on overwrite the cache data properly.
So that's why read write is more.
You can say that generally in kind of a payment industry this is more frequently used.
So this is one example you can see that I am doing first post insert Insert happen directly inserted
into DB.
Then I made a Get call.
You know that during a get call cache miss will happen.
It will make a DB call and then it will insert into the cache.
Load data into the cache.
Now you are making a put call.
When you are making a put call, what you do is you will put a lock first, you will put a invalidate,
then you will hit the DB and after that you will release the lock releasing lock and all are not printing,
but after that you know that it will update the cache also with the latest data and release the lock.
And now when you are doing last get call cache has the updated data right.
So cache hit will happen because updation happened properly and then release lock happened.
Okay then the second catch concurrency is non strict retry.
This is you can say that little bit lenient than read write during read.
No lock is acquired at all right.
During read it.
Do not even check whether there is a lock or not it directly.
Go ahead and retry to read it.
During update after transaction commits successfully, cache is marked invalidated and no update will
with the fresh data.
So consider this one.
In this scenario it is little bit.
So the.
Here the purpose of non strict is that uh try to put a lock for the less time okay.
So that's where like for read it.
Remove the lock at all for update.
During update.
What happen is transaction begin.
Then it will not uh acquire or it will.
Acquire.
Lock on cache It will not do any update or you can invalidate the cache.
No, cache is not invalidated.
Okay.
And then you can say that it goes ahead and update DB okay.
And after that if transaction commit success then it will invalidate the cache, invalidate the cache
and then release the lock.
Okay.
So now here if you see that if any transaction rollback happen, if rollback happen it won't do anything.
It won't even invalidate thing.
It will just release it simply right.
Because uh, data is not even like it is not even updating the cache itself.
So that is not even there.
So that's not good for heavy read application.
So if update and read happens in parallel, it's a chance that read operation might get stale data because
read is not acquiring log lock at all.
And while update is happening, if read also comes in parallel, maybe during update it might it might
have updated the DB.
Okay, but since read is not uh, wait for any log and everything and if it read the data from the cache,
okay, before this invalidated, it will get the stale data.
But it's a very small window.
But there is a chance here in the at the rate cache I have put non restrict read write.
Okay.
And also let me put one debugger point in J.
We know that the factory which we are using is J cache region factory which is present into hibernate.
Hibernate.
Hyphen.
Cache.
So while during application startup it will create a cache and then ultimately it will goes to we have
the only one provider.
So this it will goes to this provider right cache.
And then we'll see that like I'm starting the server.
So during application startup server J cache region factory got invoked.
Right.
So now it takes care of creating the cache and everything.
This factory okay.
It will take care of like creating a cache object okay.
And invoking a proper API of the uh, you can say that the J cache API interface, which eventually
implemented by the your cache provider.
So in that case, uh, here, if you see that this is the interface which is coming from cash cash hyphen
API.
Right.
This is the interface and Cash Manager is providing the implementation.
Okay.
So once our server is started now let's perform it.
First let's do post call.
So post.
So post call is success.
Now let's see the DB.
What's the data stored in the DB.
We have a data okay.
Now.
And here also we will check it like insert call is made.
So now we are trying to make a get call in the get call get call is success.
We got the data here.
If you see it make a Select query.
So first one is insert.
Second one is select.
And now in the non strict read write.
What we are saying is when you do a put call.
Now I am changing.
From now I am changing the data from SJ to let's say SJ updated.
If I run this data is changed in the DB.
Let's say that it's change SJ updated.
But what would have happened internally inside the cache?
So since transaction is committed properly, it has updated properly.
It has also updated the cache invalidated in cache.
It is not has the latest data.
It didn't update SJ updated only it marked as invalidated.
Okay, now if I do a Get call I am able to get updated properly.
Is it coming from cache or new Select query would be made here.
If you see that a new Select query is made after update, because update only marked invalidate, it
will not update the cache itself.
But if we change this to read write.
Read write.
So if you change it to read write, we can see that uh, the we can, uh, double test the same behavior.
I am running the insert.
During insert we will see insert call.
Then during get call we will see a cache miss and then a select query.
Now it has inserted into the cache.
Then during put call it has first marked as invalidated.
Then update the DV after the success transaction success.
It also have updated the cache also.
So update happened after that.
If I do a get call, will I getting a updated data?
Yes.
So is it from DB or cache?
There would not be any select query cache.
Hit okay.
So in the read write.
It also update the cache.
But in the non restrict it.
Don't update the cache, it just make it invalidated.
And the last one is transactional in the transaction is you can say that it's a more restrict.
So it acquire read lock and also write log update the cache to after transaction commit successfully
similar to read underscore write like once the transaction commit successfully it update the cache properly.
Any other read operation during cache log goes directly to DB.
What does it mean?
I have an L2 cache.
You have a DB if you have put in a transactional or cache concurrency.
Now get call is there.
Let's say it has entity one, entity one.
So it put a lock even though it put a lock.
And now if any get call come it will say that hey it is locked.
So get will try to fetch from the DB okay.
And return.
So in this during read also it act like it act like a hard lock where no other get call is also even
allowed to read from the L2 cache.
Go and directly read from the DB.
If any other write operation comes, it has to wait in queue.
Okay till the cache till the get lock is not released.
Okay, you can test it.
Like, uh, the way we have tested this read write and uh, non strict you can test with this also.
So debug is a very helpful tool to build this understanding.
So you can debug this one.