# Design High Availability System || Active Passive & Active Active Architecture

Hey guys on this side and welcome to Concept and Coding.
And we have one more very very important interview questions of high level design.
And it's more of you can say that a theoretical but based upon this theoretical question a lot of implementation
questions can be asked.
Right.
But let's discuss today about this topic which is design high availability architecture.
Right.
So this question can be asked in many different forms or many different ways.
Right.
So one thing I said is design high availability architecture.
Similarly interviewer can say that hey Shreyansh, can you design data resilience architecture?
You know, right.
What resiliency means.
Resiliency means something which has the capability to comes out of failure.
Right.
So design data resiliency architecture okay.
Another way of asking is design architecture to achieve 99.999 percentile availability.
So you might already know that every company try to achieve five nines, right?
So that actually the five nines is 99.999% of availability.
That much availability is very, very important.
So how to design that architecture?
Another way of asking is hey, can you design an architecture to avoid single point of failure?
Right.
And another is, hey, can you, uh, tell me the active passive versus active active architecture?
What's the difference?
So there are different, different names of asking this question, right?
But if you understand it properly in any other names interviewer will ask, you will have no problem
at all right.
So ultimately agenda is we have to design a high availability architecture, which is available 99.999%,
which has the capability to even after it is failure, it comes out of it.
There is no single point of failure.
So we have to design such architecture.
Okay, so this is the today's agenda.
Very very important question guys.
Again.
And lot of questions can be built on top of it.
And as you know that questions we will see later.
So today let's understand this topic okay.
So now let's say first uh is the basic single node.
Right.
Then I will tell you what issue it has and why all these things are not achieved through single node
and how we can do it.
So first understand with single node is let's say you have a client here.
So this is my client right.
Let's say mobile is the right laptop is the right desktop.
Let's say.
So let's say it comes to a load balancer.
So I have a load balancer layer.
So load balancer does so many things.
So let's say load balancer is there.
Then it comes to our application.
Right.
So let's say it's a microservices.
So it's microservices layer.
So here I would say that application X application y application Z let's say just assume that it's microservices.
And there are many applications.
Right.
And there might be multiple nodes of each application.
Right.
And this application is connected to.
A DB layer.
Which is our primary DB.
Okay.
So it's a very simple.
It's a single node.
We have a client.
Client request comes through a load balancer.
Load balancer does a lot of uh things into it.
And it will pass the request to one of the, uh, let's say our application applications, uh, try
to connect with the DB, and DB will store the data right now.
Understand that.
What is the problem with this architecture now here what if this DB goes down.
What if this DB goes down.
There is a failure happen here.
Failure right.
So what will happen now.
So your whole application is now down.
It's down because any request will come in okay.
Till here.
Request is coming in.
Right till here.
Request comes in.
So let's say one of the request goes to the application also properly when applications try to reach
to a DB.
But DB is down so this will be a failure.
So neither read will fail.
And write request will also fail.
Okay.
So does it bring us a 99.999% availability?
No.
Does it has a single point of failure?
Yes.
It has a single point of failure.
Right.
So we have to avoid it.
Right.
So does it has a data resiliency architecture.
No.
Once it is failure it doesn't have capability to come out of it until and unless it has to be resolved
it might take hours or sometime it might take days.
Also we don't know.
Right.
So these are all the issues with the single node.
Now here we comes to the multi node.
And this multi node Has two types.
One is, as you know, active, passive, and another is, as you already know, what is that?
Active.
Right.
So now let's first understand what is active passive and how it, uh, resolve all the issues with the
single node.
Right.
And try to achieve this and we'll see that how active active is done and in what all case we can use
this.
Okay.
So now let's first go ahead with active passive.
Architecture.
Okay.
So now here every company has at least two data center.
So let's say it is data center one.
And this is data center two right.
So let's say two data center.
Right.
So data center, let's say one is in Mumbai.
And this is in Pune.
Right.
Just assume that one.
Okay.
So now let's understand this architecture first.
So let's say you have a client.
You have a client.
So client can be your mobile.
It can be it can come from anything.
Right.
So you have a client.
So then there is a load balancer.
Load balancer.
Now load balancer will pass request to either our data center one or here data center two.
So here data center two.
And this is our data center one.
So now here I have.
Multiple applications let's say app X app, Y app.
Right.
It's a microservices layer, right?
So similar configuration of application is also present here.
App X app y app Z right.
So there are different.
Machines of application.
There are multiple applications of X right.
Multiple applications of Y.
So it's a microservices layer right.
So it's the same configuration in data center one.
Data center two.
And here it is now connected with its DB.
Right.
And here Ah, we also have a DB, but now understand here in the active passive model, right out of
this two data centers or many more than two.
Also only one can be primary, one can be primary or there could be other names like only one could
be live DB right?
Or only one could be read write DB.
So these are all the different names.
Either you call it a primary or live DB or read write DB right and the other ones will be treated as
replicas right up.
The only one can be either a primary DB or live or read right, but others will be treated as replicas.
Right?
and the other one will be known as D, which is known as disaster recovery.
Disaster recovery Data center.
Right.
So out of that, say for let's say, uh, I am building one application.
I have two data center, one in Mumbai, one in Pune and the Mumbai one I have make it a primary.
Right.
So other one, the Pune one will be now treated as a disaster recovery data center and its DB would
be considered as a replicas.
So now let's say what will happen now.
So now let's say request is coming.
Request is coming right.
So let's say request first goes to data center.
One load balancer has moved to the data center one right.
So data center one Let's say it's the first time taking.
It's a, uh, right request right or post request right?
Right request.
So it will goes to the primary one because this is the data center.
One request is coming and it will be written properly here.
Okay.
Now let's say second read request is coming.
So again let's say read request again comes from client to load balancer.
Load balancer again move it to the data center one and the read request again for the data center one
will be taken care properly by the primary.
Now let's see what will happen when the request will traverse from Data Center two.
Now let's say a request come from client to load balancer.
And from load balancer it went to Data Center two.
From Data Center two.
Application.
Now what it will do is request will move to primary.
That's the difference.
So active passive model.
You have to understand that only one is primary right.
And whenever a request comes to the disaster recovery data center right then that application that layer
application layer connects to the primary DB, right.
Connects to the primary DB.
And primary DB will take care of storing the data right, whether it's a right or whether it's a read.
So now you know that any request which is coming to Data Center two, which is the Disaster Recovery
Data center, its application will move the traffic to the primary or live DB.
And from here Are.
There will be a.
Sync up.
Sync up will happen from primary derby to replicas.
Okay, so this is one way.
Now you can easily see that this is not very much.
Are you utilizing its resources very well because as you can see that.
Hey, uh, this DB is, uh, free.
Why?
We can't use it.
Right.
So there are one reason is one reason is Oracle MySQL Postgres.
And not multi master.
What does it mean by multi master means.
So Oracle MySQL Postgres can only right into one primary DB or live DB.
So you have to select which one is the live DB or which one is the read write db or primary DB.
Any.
You can call it by any name, right?
So whenever any write request comes, write or post whenever any write request comes in.
Oracle MySQL Postgres can only write it to the live DB, right?
So request has to transfer it to the live DB.
But now you can say that okay, right?
Right DB I can understand that Oracle doesn't support Multi-master.
It can only write to a live DB.
But what about read write can't it read from here?
Yes, it can read it from here.
And this model can be little bit improvised.
Like okay we can change the modification that okay.
Any read request comes in.
You can read it from here.
Any read request comes in.
You can read it from here.
Replica read only.
That's why replica DB also known as read only DB write.
But when any write request comes in, right?
So it goes to here.
When any write request comes in, it goes to the live DB.
Because I told you that Oracle MySQL Postgres are not multimaster, right?
They the write can only happen into one db which is marked as live or primary.
So any write request comes to the data center which is our disaster recovery data center.
Then any write request comes in we can move it to the primary one, but any read request comes in,
we can move it to here in the read only DB here.
Right.
And for the data center one all the read and write.
Both can be performed by the live DB itself.
Okay.
Till now, all clear.
Now you can ask me hey how it is a data resilience.
How it is, uh, avoiding the single point of failure.
Now let's see what will happen.
Primary DB goes down.
Now from this applications, what we can do is we can easily switch the traffic from here to now, from
here to here.
From here to here.
Disaster recovery data center.
And now make this now make this primary.
Now make this primary.
Now these are not more replica.
Now this is our primary read write.
And this will start taking the traffic.
So now you see that even our one DB is down.
We are still able to take a traffic because we have a disaster recovery data center, and as soon as
our main DB is down, what we will do is we will route the traffic of that data center to the one,
the disaster recovery data center, right, and change it to primary and read right, right or live
DB right.
And once this is up, we can make it either replica or read only DB right.
So you understood now the how it is providing the single point of failure, how it is avoiding single
point of failure and data resilience architecture for this one.
Now there are certain disadvantage, right?
There are certain disadvantage of this one.
You can ask me the disadvantage is that make it clearly so I have a client.
It goes to load balancer.
Let's say first it goes to Data Center one, which is my primary one.
Right.
So it goes to my application and application.
It's from my DB right.
Let's say it takes one second to process the request.
Now the second time when I make a request it now goes to Data Center two, which is my disaster recovery
data center.
Right.
It takes to an app.
Let's say I'm trying to write something even though it has a DB.
I told you that, uh, the write will happen to this one primary primary one.
So now here it says that it is in Pune and this data center is Mumbai.
So there would be certain latency add on.
So for this request it will not be one second.
It would be let's say two second.
Right.
So there is the difference in the latency.
So it's an latency add on happens if any request goes to the disaster recovery data center.
Second disadvantage is when any DB failure happens.
Let's say this failure happens.
Then application has to route the traffic to this replica one right.
And make it primary.
So there is a gap.
So let's say maybe 15 minutes ten minutes.
There is a delay.
So till then all our right will fail or any traffic which come to this, it will fail till this connection
is not made and this is not made primary.
Right.
So there would be certain time for which you will see a failure when this DB goes down.
Okay.
So these are the disadvantage of active passive architecture.
And now let's move on to.
Active.
Architecture.
I hope it's clear till now.
Active.
Passive is fully clear, right?
You will not forget, right?
How it's done.
Now.
Active.
Active architecture.
Now, see, I told you that Oracle, MySQL and Postgres does not support multi-master means.
But there are certain DB's like Cassandra and mostly NoSQL DB's.
They do support Multi-master, right?
Means more than one live DB can be present and it can write to them simultaneously.
So in here active active architecture, what is happen is you have a client.
There is a load balancer here.
Right.
And this is let's say data Center one which is in Mumbai.
This is my data center two, which is in Pune, right?
I have my application here.
So this is my application microservices here also I have the same.
You already know it now.
This is our microservices.
These are micro services.
Now it is connected to its DB which is primary or live.
Similarly it is also connected to its own DB which is also primary and live right.
And there would be a bidirectional sync up would happen in active passive only one directional sync
happen from primary to replicas.
Right now here, bidirectional will happen, right?
So now what will happen?
And any request comes in.
Let's say first time a request comes in from client to load balancer and it goes to data Center one.
Right.
Whether it's a read or write anything, let's say it's a read or write anything.
It can be anything from data center only from this DB.
It will take care, right?
Similarly, any request which comes from to load balancer to data center.
Two any read or write, any read or write any the same DB gonna take care of it, right?
Because this is also a primary now, right?
So now we are utilizing the DB fully okay.
So now here if you see that the major problem which comes in here is in this sync up part, this sync
up.
So here, if you see that this sync up looks easy.
But this is not this is actually the most complexity happens.
So use cases like let's say uh this is uh data center one data center one DB and data center two DB.
So any update happens here, it should goes to data Center two.
Any update happens here.
It should goes to data center one DB.
And it is also possible that a change can happen at the same time.
Right?
And same row same row same time.
And they both are trying to now replicate to each other.
And there would be a conflict, right?
And also, there is a possibility that there is a right happen here, right in data Center one.
But read is happening here in Data Center two simultaneously before even the sync up happen.
So sync sync up hasn't happened yet, but right happened here.
But read read is happening from here.
So there are certain complexity in maintaining the synchronization.
Right.
And there is a conflict resolution.
And there is a whole lot of things goes in synchronization part itself.
So maybe in the next video I will cover those or maybe in the future videos.
But to the crux here, the best advantage of active to active architecture is that we are totally utilizing
Using our resources very well in all the data centers.
Right.
So now any request can goes to anywhere so we can take more traffic.
We can handle more traffic for sure.
Right.
Because both can take care of read.
Both can take care of right.
In the active passive one, all the write operation is taken care by our primary right.
And all the read operation we can little bit uh improve it and read can also be taken care by replica.
That's why we call it read only DB.
So for read it's okay.
But if it's the right uh, let's say my application.
There are too many writes.
Too many, then definitely the all the load will come to one one primary DB.
So that is one more disadvantage of active passive one.
If, if your application is, uh, too much right gonna happen then active passive will not scale much.
Right.
So that's pretty much about active active and this active passive architecture.
And I hope you got a sense of it.
How we can design the architecture for this right to achieve a high availability.
So I have covered this now.
So in the high level design roadmap till at the potency handling we have already covered, I have covered
active passive and active clustering, active active clustering, concurrency heading I think I will
cover the next one.
This is another important big topic.
But before that I wanted to cover this one.
And then we will slowly will go this and then we will do lot of questions okay guys.
So that's pretty much from my side.
And thank you very much.
If you like it please share it with your connections.
It would be really mean to me.
And also please subscribe the channel.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
Good night.
