Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to cover the final.
The classes will be completed hours with this three topic singleton immutable and wrapper.
Right.
So this is the part four.
And after this our classes would be classes.
Topic would be finished.
So let's start with singleton class.
This is first of all very very important okay.
So what is the purpose of the singleton class.
As you know the singleton with the name itself like this class objective is to create one and only one
object.
Right.
So there are many use cases you will come in life like where you want only one object to be created
like DB connection.
So whatever the class you do, you have a DB connection.
You want only one connection to be set up with the DB, right?
This is your DB and this is your application.
You want only one time connection to be set up.
Then after that you can do as many as query you want.
Select Insert update.
Right.
You don't have to create a connection each time.
So we want to create this class as a singleton that no matter how many times it has been called, no
matter from where it is called only and only one object should be created of this class.
So that is the purpose of singleton class.
So it's a very, very important interview questions.
Because it's not very small topic.
It's a very big topic.
And there are different ways of creating a singleton class.
So these are the popular six ways.
Eager lazy synchronized, block double check lock build solution and enum singleton.
So let's go through each because uh, even if, even if with the understand singleton with 1 or 2 pattern,
uh 1 or 2 methods, then definitely it's not completed.
I would say that.
So we have to understand all, uh, clearly.
So let's go with eager initialization.
As the name says, that eager means something in advance.
So let's say that I take an example of the same.
I created one class public class Dbconnection.
Now first thing I notice is the object creation of this.
So I created an object of this eagerly in advance itself.
So I have make it private static.
So what?
Why I made it private this object.
Because I don't want anybody to access it apart from this class.
Right.
I don't want anybody to access it and change it also.
Right.
So private is, uh, that one that it should, it can be accessed only within this class.
And static means static means only.
So this is not related to object.
Now this is related to class right.
So this object con object is now belongs to a class, not belongs to an object.
So no matter how many hundred objects you will create, this con object will belongs to a class now,
right?
So that's what static means, right?
Something belongs to a class, not belongs to a particular object.
So one thing I have done is here to create a singleton classes.
I have created the object right and made it private static.
Second thing what I've done is I made the constructor private so that nobody is allowed to create a
new object through new keyword new db connection outside of this class, right?
So since it is constructor is private after this class from anywhere, right?
Apart from this class, nobody is allowed to do new DB connection or you can't create a new object.
Okay.
Third, I created a public method now so that others if they wanted an object of this class.
They can call this method and I will just return this object which I have created.
And I have created a static so that they can call with the class name itself.
So this method belongs to a class also.
So whichever want the object of this call this method like this Dbconnection dot get instance I will
always return this only one object I have created and I will always return this right.
Very simple.
So this is a singleton class and this is called as eager initialization because we have as soon as when
you start the application you know that the all the static variables right are preloaded into the memory.
Right.
So that's why it's called eager initialization.
Even though somebody is not using this method, they they haven't called it, but still object has been
created and stored in memory.
So that's what called eager initialization.
And that's what a disadvantage.
Also even though I am not using this something is already created in the memory.
Okay, so to overcome this problem, here we come with the lazy initialization.
In the lazy initialization, if you see that instead of creating an object here new Dbconnection, we
are not initializing now at this part, but the it is still a private static constructor is still a
private here.
Now in this method get instance before creating an object, we are first checking that hey is connection
object is already created or not, it is already a new object has been assigned to it or not.
If it is null so initialize.
Initially it would be null.
So let's say thread one is coming.
So thread one say object is null.
Yes it will go and create a new object and reference has been assigned to it.
So now it will store a reference to a memory object.
Now thread two comes.
It will say that object is null.
A connection object is null.
No memory is already allocated, so it will not create new.
It will return the object itself.
But the disadvantage of this is like what if this is null and two threads comes in parallel.
This is null and two threads comes in parallel.
A connection object equals to equals to null.
Both will find null at the same time.
They will check it's null and two objects will get created.
So that's the disadvantage of lazy initialization.
So to overcome this problem there is a next called synchronized method.
So what it has synchronized has done is it make this method as self as synchronized here.
If you see that I have put a synchronized.
So this synchronized keyword does two things.
It first lock put a lock and also do unlock.
Now this whole method I have put a synchronized.
Now let's say two thread are calling this get instance.
And this is also calling get instance.
Now only one thread will be allowed to go inside this block right.
This method is this complete method itself is synchronized.
Only one thread will go.
So thread one will see hey it is null so it will create a new object of it.
So currently it is null.
Now it will create a new object.
Now after this thread two will go inside this method.
But now object is already created.
So if it is equals to equals to null no it will return it.
So only disadvantage of this is that this we are putting a synchronized at a method level.
So this is becoming a very slow why.
Let's say there are so many places we are calling get instance.
We are we are calling get instance at so many places.
Let's say place one, place two, place three.
Let's say at 100 of places we are calling Getinstance method, not parallel sequential itself.
Just understand that.
So I am calling Getinstance method.
What it will do is put a lock and then unlock.
Then it place two.
Now object is already created.
This object is already been created.
Now place two.
Even though object is already created, I can simply get object equals to equals to null.
Now I can return it, but still.
Since synchronize is present over here, it will again put lock again unlock it.
So now you see that every time this method has been called thousand times lock and unlock would be happen.
So this is very very slow synchronize method.
And that's why we mostly not use it.
Okay.
So to overcome this a double check locking system comes.
Double checked locking system comes.
So in the double check locking system.
So one thing is same.
We have a private static object.
Forget about this one volatile, but remember that I will tell you why this is used, but for now,
just assume that this is not there.
But this is very, very important.
So here second, the same thing.
We are making the constructor private so that we don't want anybody to create a new object outside of
this class.
Third part here is here.
If you see that I have removed the synchronized over the method right now how we are handling this.
So this is check one and this is check two.
So that's why it is known as double checked locking.
So first I am checking here is object is null.
Yes.
By default it would be null.
Yes.
So thread one is coming.
Object is null.
Yes.
Now it will put a lock.
Now it will lock here.
And then go inside and then check one more time.
Hey, it is still a null only, right?
Yes, it is still a null.
It will create an object now it will create an object of it.
Now when thread two comes, it will check.
Hey, connection object equals to equals to none.
No object is already created.
It will return it.
So it will solve the problem of concurrency.
Which will happen is like let's say now this is null, this is null.
And two threads comes at the same time t1 and t2.
So both will find it is null.
Yes.
They will come inside it.
Now because of this synchronize, only one of them will go and one of them will acquire the lock and
go ahead.
So let's say T1 goes ahead.
Now T1 is checking again.
Hey is it is still a null only right?
Yes, it is still a null.
And it will go and create an object.
So it will create an object.
Now after it released the lock.
Now thread two will come here and it will now again a double check.
Hey, it is still null, right?
No, it is not null.
Now object has been created so it will not create new object, it will simply return it.
So that's why it is known as double check locking.
We are checking two times okay.
But there is the disadvantage of this is there is one memory issue.
Okay.
Just understand this one.
Like we have different cores.
So I have already covered this, uh, double check locking system memory issue in the system.
Low level design video.
The bug in double check locking, right.
But I will also cover it here.
Also like to explain why it is an issue when I will explain you volatile in depth.
Because this is an important keyword.
But I will just give you a heads up like what was the actual issue?
There are two issues, but I'll tell you what are the.
At least we will understand what is the issue here.
So understand this.
Each in the CPU there are multiple cores.
Each core has their cash.
Which is generally known as L1 cash.
And then they have access to memory.
Common memory.
Now let's say thread one and thread two is coming parallelly.
Both thread one and thread two is coming parallelly.
So here thread one or let's say even if it is not parallelly, just never.
Let's say first thread one comes here.
So thread one comes here.
It gets a lock.
It created an object.
So thread one is computation is happening in the core one.
So let's say it.
So here correctly connection object value is.
But earlier it was null.
So it is present in null.
Now thread one is going inside and it created a new object.
So now let's say the computation let's say which is happening at core one.
It is for temporary.
It is storing the data here here.
So let's say now con object has a new reference to a memory.
So but it is still in cache.
And you know that, uh, for the performance purpose, all the cores stores the data into the L1 cache,
and periodically they will sync up it to the memory.
Now, let's say that whatever the memory, uh, we have assignment we have done to this object, whatever
the reference of the memory assignment happened, it is still happening in the L1 cache.
It is still present into the L1 cache.
The memory has not been updated yet.
And also understand that the sync up between these two caches not yet happened till now.
Now let's say that thread two is coming now.
Now thread two is coming now.
Thread two says that a connection object equals to equals to null.
So now let's say thread two computation is happening in the core two.
Okay.
Now it will check its cache.
Hey It is connection object is null or it has certain object already reference to it.
So cache two will say that hey, I had I have no knowledge about the conn object because the sync up
doesn't happen.
So it will go and check the memory in memory.
It will find it is null.
So it will return null.
So it says it is null.
It will go inside.
It will take a lock.
It will check again.
It is null.
It is.
Yes.
It is still null.
Still.
Let's say sync up doesn't happen and it hasn't updated the memory.
Also it will go ahead and check.
Hey, it is still null.
Yes, null.
So it will create a new object and put it here.
So now you see that because of this caching the two object has been created.
So this is just one of the memory issue.
There is another memory issue called reordering.
So both this issue has been resolved by volatile.
That's why volatile is used.
So volatile has one purpose.
So we will see this volatile used in detail maybe in the next video.
Uh, but volatile purpose is that if you have created any object volatile, any read and write happening
to this is always happen from memory, not from the cache.
Right.
So now let's say in the first thread one, when it is writing this connection object equals to new database
connection, it will not store it into the cache.
It will directly update the memory.
Now when thread two comes and it want to see hey connection object equals to equals to null connection
object is volatile.
It won't even check the cache.
It will just check from the memory.
So that's why volatile is used right.
So because to overcome the memory issue I hope you got it right.
So this is very important to use with the double check locking and in the interview it do us right.
Generally, most of the candidates solve double locking without this and in production generally this
is now how not it is used.
It is used with volatile keyword.
Now still this double check locking is slow because we are using volatile which means it is not using
cache.
So definitely it's a little bit slow.
And there is also a synchronized keyword we are using.
So this is also putting lock and lock.
So this is little bit slow.
To overcome this there is one more solution called build solution.
So here if you see that we are not using volatile we are not using synchronize nothing.
It is making use of this eager initialization.
Right.
What does the disadvantage of eager initialization is.
Hey even this class is not even used.
Object is created, right?
Eagerly we have initialized now.
So what this bill has done is resolve that only it the initialization part.
Private static one.
Right.
It just put it inside a nested class.
A static nested class.
Private static nested class.
Why?
Because this nested class do not get loaded at the time of application when it you start the application.
All the nested class do not get loaded into the memory only when they are referred.
When they are used, then only it will loaded.
That's the property, one of the property of the nested classes.
So we have make it private so that this nested class cannot be accessed outside of this class.
Okay.
And second thing is we have put this our private static right inside this.
Okay.
So now here is now you see that we have made the constructor private.
So that object of the main class cannot be done from the outside of this class.
Second is we have created a nested static, this class helper class which is creating this object.
Right.
And it is again a private static so that it can be accessed only within this class.
Right.
Similar to the eager initialization, we were doing right private static and creating.
But instead this we are now creating in a nested.
And the third is whenever it is being used, we are returning it same as eager one.
But only difference is initializing this object inside a static, private static nested class so that
whenever it is used then only it will be loaded.
Nested class will be loaded into memory.
Okay, so that's how Buildpack solves the solution.
And it is very fast.
And this is I think you know, you can tell this is also a popular one.
Then there is another called enum like through you know that in enum.
By default all constructors are private.
I have also showed you before, right?
So all constructors are private and so enum by default only one it's object is created and in the.
So as per JVM, each JVM only one snapshot of enum is present.
So it's by default enums are singleton only right.
So we are creating a class constructor private and all.
So here if you see that in enum everything is happen automatically.
So enum constructors are always by default private only.
So we don't have to write this also.
Second the object of this one right?
It's enum.
Take care that only one instance of exist per JVM.
One instance only exists per JVM, right?
So that's what singleton is, right?
One object per JVM.
Okay, so if you see that enum solve it within two lines itself where we are writing so many method.
Okay.
So that's also you can achieve an through an enum also.
So this is all about singleton.
Now let's see what is immutable classes.
So when I told about immutable one thing should come to your mind that in the variable I told you that
strings are immutable, their value cannot be changed.
And we have also studied about string pool and all.
So similarly immutable class is something which state cannot be changed right.
So I have created, uh, let's say one object of this class.
Now this object state cannot be changed, right?
Now we will see how we can do that.
So first thing is declare the class as final.
So I'm creating an object class here.
So I have created an class as a final because I don't want any subclass to be created and change the
value so no subclass is allowed.
Okay, all class members should be private.
So I have you seen that I have created a private and final means nobody can access these variables outside
of this class, right?
And once the value has been assigned to it, they can't be changed.
That's what final say, right?
Third is the class members are initialized only once using constructor.
So whenever you create an object of it that time, you pass what value you wanted to assign to the variables
that time you can allow.
After that, the value should not be changed.
There should be not be any setter method.
So now here, if you see that I have only created getter method, there is no set setter method to set
the values out of it.
Only one time setting is happen when you create an object and that is happened through constructor.
It should during getter method it should return the copy of the member variable.
This is very important.
Okay, so I see I have taken an example of normal string and the list.
This is very important.
Understand this one okay.
Now see with this an example.
Okay so I am creating an object of this immutable class.
And I'm passing the variables which I wanted to set.
So in the name I am passing a string like my name.
And in the list of object I am passing my list pet name list I have put sj pj.
Okay, so this is the pet name list I have sent and it is has been initialized.
Now let's say if I can I change the name, let's say from my name to can I change it to a no.
Let's say even if you do like okay object obj dot get name, you will get the name.
Will you be allowed to change it?
There is no setter method.
How you will change it?
You can't even access the name directly because it is private.
You can't change it.
But can you change the pet name list?
Yes.
So now let's say in the getter.
If you are just returning this directly, if you are returning directly the pet name list.
Now see understand this.
That's why I have taken the list to make you also tell that.
So now here pet name list pet name list you have make it final.
So this is my final.
And while creating a constructor you have assigned it to one of the values.
So there is already a memory created which has SJ okay.
So this is like has as J and this is also a memory having a reference of PJ.
Okay, so this is how it is currently.
Now here, if you see that this final means it is referring to this memory, this block of memory.
So if you from the getter method, if you are returning pet name list means you are returning this memory
area.
You are still allowed to add more values or delete values out of it.
So what final say here in the collection is that you should always point to the same list.
You should always point to the same list.
Let's say I'm calling it a list one.
You will always point to the same list.
You can't change this and point to the another list.
List two.
No, you will always point to the same memory.
List one, let's say.
But you are allowed to change internally.
The add values.
Delete values, update values.
This can be changed.
Okay.
So this can be changed.
So ultimately inside this it's a list of object right.
So you have created an object where you have let's say s and it will have a reference.
So for this one you are storing an object here.
Object reference here okay.
So what I'm saying is the final says that you can just point to one list.
You can't change it to another list, but within a one list, if you have multiple objects right you
can add it, remove it, delete it.
So that's why I say that during getter method, always make sure that you return the copy right.
So that's why here when I'm returning a get name list, I am returning a copy of it.
I created a new list and then return the and copy it and then send it.
So now let's say I'm doing object dot get name list.
So now I'm getting a copy.
A new list has been created.
Now it has copied the variables from this name list.
So it has sj and pj sj pj okay.
Now um what I'm trying to do is now adding a hallow so it will add.
Hello here.
Okay now I'm doing System.out.println object dot get pet name list.
So I'm doing get again.
So I'm getting again and it will create a new and again copy this thing.
So it will create a new again copy SJ PJ okay so now here if you see that I will always get this value
only because I am not changing the original one.
This hello, which I added, I added in a copy one and who is storing its reference?
Nobody.
So as soon as nobody is using it, it will be collected by the garbage collector, it will be removed.
Okay, so that's why we are saying that always return a copy of the member variable so that these values
should not be changed at all.
Okay, understood.
This one.
Immutable.
Once you have initialized the variables, it states.
Now the class state should not be changed, right?
So few things has to be taken care as a while.
So it should be final.
It should be private.
Uh right.
And this getter methods only, it should have an during getter method.
Always take care of this when you're returning a collection.
Because sometime we got confused that we have created a collection.
Final means we can't even change this.
Also, now we are allowed to.
Only thing is, you are just pointing to one collection.
But inside this collection you can still add more and delete it.
Now let's see the wrapper class and wrapper class I have already covered.
Uh, in depth in.
videos.
Number six.
Java variable, part two.
So there I have told you when we were covering the primitive.
Right.
There are eight primitive types right int long.
And for each primitive type a wrapper class has been initiated like integer long like this.
Right.
So I've also explained Autoboxing and unboxing there also.
So if you go here in our Java so the six video Java variable part two reference non primitive data types
in depth.
So there I have covered the wrapper classes okay.
So please do check out that one there.
The wrapper classes we have already covered I think you might have recalled right with the Autoboxing
unboxing and all.
Okay guys.
So that's pretty much from my side.
And classes is done right.
And I will explain the volatile in depth that is very important to understand about the volatile okay
guys.
Thank you.
Bye.