Now this is very important bitwise operators okay.
So it works on bit level right.
It works on bit.
That is one and zero.
And it is very fast right.
Because processor directly support this one and zero.
So this is very fast.
So these are 12344 type of bit operators bit shift operators I have kept it differently.
So bitwise operator we have bitwise and bitwise or xor and not.
So let me first explain you this how and in the bitwise will work.
So here in the bitwise.
And which is this the same 10011011.
Similarly for bitwise or.
I will take an example 011 will take bitwise XOR which is your this 10011011 okay.
So bitwise n when both are one one, then only it will return one.
For rest of the one, it will return zero.
If one zero it will return zero.
If both are one, it will return one.
Similar to like what we have seen previously right in the bitwise Or, any of one or any.
If any of the bit value is one, it will return one.
Both are so there is one missing right zero zero.
Here we have also 0000 will return zero only.
So zero zero here will return zero only and here it will return one.
In XOR what will happen is Zero zero return zero.
If both are same, then it will return zero.
If one is up and one is down, like one is one and one is zero, it will return one.
One one bit is zero and another bit is one.
It will return one, right.
So this is repetitive 1001 and one one.
Both are same.
It will return zero okay.
So in XOR what we do is if both are same then it will return zero.
If one bit is one and another bit is zero different.
In this case it will return one.
Right.
And there is something called which is.
You will find it very very interesting which is bitwise not I will explain you bitwise not as a separate
after this one because this will uh might confuse you a bit.
So bitwise not.
I will explain you first.
Let's see this 13A equals four b equals to six.
Now we are doing a and b.
So you know that in bitwise how we have stored the value 1248 1632 like this 64 like this.
So four four would be written as 0010.
Like this.
Let's say I have a four bit like this.
Uh, so this is your four.
How your six would be represented.
Four plus 21100.
Now what we are doing is we are doing.
And between them so zero zero is 001 is 011 is 100 is zero.
Right.
So what is this value four.
Okay.
Now similarly we are doing R.
So now let's say if you are doing an R between this we are doing an R between this.
So 00001 is 111 is 100 is zero.
So what is this value.
Four and two is bit set right.
So it is four plus two six.
Okay now let's do XOR.
Simple right.
Bitwise operators.
Now let's do xor in XOR.
What we have seen is if both are same then it's zero.
Otherwise it's
A10000111100.
So what value is set two two.
Okay so these three are simple.
Now let's say that bit not let's understand this very, very importantly because it will solve many
of your bit twice little bit issues which comes in.
So generally this what not will do is bitwise not.
Bitwise not.
What it will do is if you have one zero it will change it to 1 to 0 zero.
It will change it to one.
It looks simple right.
One is changed to zero.
Zero is changed to one.
Now let's say I am doing my A is what.
So now let me first remove this to make a space.
Then I'll explain you this one just a second.
Okay.
So let's start this one bit was not.
Okay.
So what was the a?
A is for what I am trying to do is bitwise not of this one.
So I am doing this.
So now let's see what will happen.
How this minus five has come.
So four would be like how it would be in the bitwise one, two, four, eight, 16, 3264, 128.
Like this.
It goes right.
So four is your 0010.
So see this is plus four right.
This is not minus four correct.
This is what value it has plus four okay.
So now plus four always has this at last is a sign bit.
You already know this right.
You might have worked with the bit the last bit.
This is known as most significant bits and this is known as least significant bit right.
So the left most bit is known as most significant bit.
Then the right most bit is known as least significant bit.
And why it is known as most significant bit.
Because this will tell you whether a number is a positive or a negative, because this is a sign bit.
This is used as a sign bit okay.
Remember that the most significant bit is used as a sign bit.
So when a number is negative, the most significant is one.
When the number is positive the most significant bit is zero.
Okay.
So I think this is the basic which we uh have for the software engineering part.
So but just wanted to remind you that this is what we have right in the bitwise the most significant
bit, if it is one means it's a negative number.
If it is zero means it's a positive number.
Now why we are all discussing for this bitwise not.
Now let's understand this.
So what?
The value of a is plus four like four.
So it's 0010.
I am not writing it as 001.
Right.
Because now the most significant would be your one which is says the negative.
No.
So for it we are denoting plus four.
Right.
So it would be like this okay.
So generally integer would be let's say 32 bit.
So it would be more.
But I'm saying that let's say it's the four bits.
So we will denote it like this.
Now we are doing not of this.
When we are doing not of this, we know that what it will do is it will change 0 to 1, 1 to 0.
So 0 to 1, 0 to 1, 1 to 0, 0 to 1 okay.
So I will get this number.
So now what is this value.
What is this value.
We have to compute this right before computing this.
I'll also tell you that generally not is have this formula minus n plus one where n is the this here
what is the value which we are doing.
So minus four plus one.
So it should be minus five.
So this should be minus five as per the formula for the complement for this are bitwise not right but
how.
So now let's see this 1248.
So here we have 1101.
So I want to find out the decimal number right.
So two zero into two raised to power one into two raised to power two into two.
Raised to power minus three.
Remember that why I am doing minus three?
Because in Java there is nothing like a integer is a signed.
It's a sign.
There is nothing in C++ you might have worked like signed unsigned integer, right?
But in Java there is nothing like an unsigned in the integer part.
So integer can have your positive values.
It can also have your negative values.
So it's a sign.
So in the bits representation of this integer value the most significant bit is one right.
It is one.
And it's an integer which is assigned.
So it has to be taken as a negative.
Because I told you one means -0 means most significant zero is means positive.
Okay.
So that's why we have to take it negative.
So what it comes minus eight plus zero into zero.
Plus two plus one into two.
Raised to power zero one.
So it would be your minus eight plus three minus five.
That's what our formula gives to us also.
Okay so either you can use directly formula.
If somebody asks you right how this, uh value comes right.
You can compute this like this way.
Okay.
Just do a complement and then you can find out the decimal value.
But remember in the Java integer is a sign.
So if the most significant is one you have to use the minus one.
So it's not 012 not three.
It would be minus three.
Okay.
So that is the bitwise not.
And also one more thing is you can you can ask me right.
Hey like how do we identify that minus one.
Is this only 1055.
So minus.
So let's say I have a equals to five.
I want to compute it's minus five.
How we can compute it.
Because when we compute minus five it should be like this only 1011.
So that we can validate that.
Yes minus five is actually 1011 only.
How we can do that.
So you know that to get a negative value we have to do second complement.
We have to find two complement right.
So let's do that.
So this one I have already told you how minus five comes in.
And using this formula.
Also you can use it.
But how we can confirm minus five.
Is actually this what we have come up with 1011.
So now we have to find out the second complement.
So for this 512485 would be your 10104 plus 0415101010101.
So first we have to find out the first complement.
First complement is just switching the 1 to 0 0 to 1.
So I have finding the first complement one become zero zero.
Become one one become zero zero become one.
Second complement is adding plus one to it.
Right.
So 1010 in the first complement plus 11101 right.
This is your minus five.
So to find out a any number negative we have to find out the second complement.
So for five when we found out the second complement what we get 1011 which is equivalent to this 11011.
So and when we compute it with this decimal we got minus five.
So all our computations fits well.
So you got it right whenever you are doing a bitwise not right, you are changing the bit 0 to 1, 1
to 0 and make sure that there is a chance that your positive number can become a negative.
Because integer.
In Java there is nothing like an unsigned.
Unsigned means all positive.
There is nothing.
Integer can also store negative values, so it's a high chance that it might even make your positive
number to a negative.
And what negative number?
Either you can use this formula or you can derive it like this.
The last most significant bit you have to.
If it is one you have to use a negative okay.
So bitwise Not is also clear right.
So this is.
Now let's do this one.
So I think this is clear right.
Bitwise and or not and or XOR and not right.
So you can ask that hey this can bitwise not also can be a unary two.
So because it is also used with a single operand like so A not so used with a single operand.
So it can be come under unary two.
Now let's do a bitwise shift operator.
What does bitwise shift operator do is it is used to shift the bits of a number left to right okay left
or right.
So there are three types left shift right shift unsigned right shift.
But there is nothing like unsigned left shift.
I'll tell you why okay.
So but first let's see this and I'll tell you like how I always keep them.
Remember that.
Which one is left shift which one is right shift because it's sometimes confusing okay.
So just remember this part is.
See where the arrow pointing to arrow pointing to a go left.
Right.
So this is the pointed area.
Just see that where it goes.
So it says that left so means it's a left shift.
And you whatever the bits we will do we will do left to our left.
Similarly for right just see the pointed area.
Don't have to remember this.
Which one left.
Just see where the arrows are pointing to.
Hey go right.
So it's a right shift, right?
And we have to shift the bits to the right hand side for example.
Right a equals to four in bits.
How you will represent it.
00100 okay.
Now I am doing left shift means how much.
How much.
Left shift a left shift one one time I have to left shift.
So means what we have to do is This is your right hand side.
This is your left hand side.
So you have to shift the bit by one.
You have to shift the bit by one.
Right.
So here this zero will come at this place.
So this is currently empty.
This zero will come at this place.
This one come at this place.
Right.
And this zero come at this place.
This zero will get ultimately get discarded right now here in the left shift, the least significant
bit will always be filled with zero.
Always be filled with zero.
Right.
So now your number will become like this.
1248.
So it will become eight.
So it's simply like a multiplication, you are shifting one to the left hand side.
So we have one, two, four, eight, 16, 32.
Right?
So if you are shifting one to the left means you are just multiplying by two, four to the eight, eight
to the 16.
So it was four.
You shift one to the left, it become double eight.
Now I am doing, let's say two times.
Shift A is four.
I am doing two times shift.
So I was a was four.
I am shifting here bringing one to here and then again bringing one to here.
So it will become two time shift.
So four to the eight, eight to the 16 right and the left most significant bit.
And whatever the the places it got empty it will switch it with zero.
Right.
And that's why one of the reason is there is nothing like.
Unsigned left Shift.
Okay.
Why?
Because I told you in a bit.
Only the MSB most significant bit is important.
Which define whether it's a sign or it's, uh, whether define a sign bit, whether it's a positive
or negative.
The least significant bit has no generally, uh, value that whether it would 1 or 0.
If it is one, it's a positive negative.
So this is that's why it is known as least significant bit this.
That's why no most significant bit because it tells because it tells the sign okay.
So whenever we do a left shift the whatever the we move okay.
If it is one we move one to the next one.
But here we will always replace it with zero, right?
For example, you have one.
How one will be represented 1000.
You are doing left shift by let's say two.
This is a a left shift by two.
So first it will move to here.
So it will become one right.
This zero goes here.
This zero will get discarded here it will replace with zero.
Then it will two times right.
It will do one more time.
So it will bring one here.
This zero will become here.
This zero will go here, this will get discarded and this will get filled up with always zero.
So it would be in two times right.
It should be four.
So that's why there is nothing like a unsigned kind of thing.
But in the right shift we have this two.
Right.
I'll also tell you this part.
So now the same example A equals to four right a equals to.
Let's use this space A equals to 2486 ten.
So 40000 okay.
So now in this case what will happen is we are doing a right shift by one.
So now arrow is pointing to the right hand side.
Means we have to move the value to the right okay.
So this will goes like a discarded.
So this will get discarded.
This will go here this will go here.
This will go here.
So 010
this will become zero.
And what value we will put here in the MSB most significant bit, what we will put we will use this.
Right.
We will use this one.
So because this is known as your signed signed right shift.
So whatever the value you have.
So I was shifting plus four right.
So it was zero.
So you have to put zero here.
If it is one over here let's say your value is uh something like for y five what we find out minus five.
What was that 1011.
Right.
1011.
We computed uh, 1011 minus five.
Okay.
So now you are doing it's, uh, let's say this is your a, a right shift by one.
So this will get discarded.
This will get here, here, here.
So this will get discarded at this place.
This value will come at this place.
This value will come one.
So now what will put here.
Okay.
So we will put the most significant bit here because this is your signed right shift.
So it is one.
So it we will always put one also.
Right.
So it will become 1101.
Okay.
But there is something called unsigned.
Unsigned.
Right.
Shift.
Now unsigned right shift.
What it will do is it will no matter whether you have you are shifting this minus five.
Right.
So it will become 101.
And this will become empty no matter if it is a 1 or 0, no matter unsigned right shift will always
fill it with zero.
Okay?
That's the only difference.
Okay, so you got it right.
What is the difference between left shift right shift and in the left shift.
There is nothing like a unsigned part.
Right signed unsigned doesn't matter because the change will happen in the least significant bit and
in the right shift there is one.
Are your signed right shift and unsigned right shift?
Okay.
And when you go to the left you are doing kind of a multiplied by two.
When you are going to the right you are kind of dividing by two.
You are decreasing by 2 to 2.
Okay.
So do practice this.
These two are very, very important.
Now there is something.
One more operator is known as ternary operator.
It mimics the if else condition right.
So let's see this example.
So let's say this is the value a equals to four b equals.
To find you need to find out the maximum value.
How you will do you will do if a greater than B Let's say your max value would be a else.
Max value would be B, right?
So we'll do compare.
If a greater than b yes, then this block will get executed.
Else if A is less than B then this block will get executed.
So ternary operator just mimic this if else part how it has this operator.
So it has this condition over here.
Condition.
This condition if condition.
Question mark.
Like if this is true then this is the expression one.
It will return.
Else.
Else part is denoted by this colon.
Else expression two will get executed.
So now the same thing which I have done in if else right.
Just see this with ternary operator usage a equals to four, B equals to five.
I have to find out the maximum.
So this is the condition first a greater than b for greater than five.
False.
It will return false.
So this will evaluate true or false.
So it is false.
So false means this part will get executed.
So what it will do is it will return this b value to it.
Right.
This will get executed.
So it will.
So B is like five.
So five will get assigned to max value.
Right.
If if you have written like b greater than a b greater than a five.
Greater than four.
Yes.
True.
Yes it is true.
Then which one will get executed?
This one.
Before.
Before this colon.
So we should have been returning B over here.
The maximum one.
So it will get returned.
Okay.
So and we print the value.
The max value will come as five.
So this is very very equivalent to if else condition.
And very very straightforward.
So this value will get assigned to which one is get true.
So this is just nothing but an expression.
Expression can have more than one operands also.
Right.
And zero or more operators also.
Okay.
So this is known as ternary operator.
And the last operator which we have is called type comparison operator.
This is the operator instance of.
So it is used to do the type check whether the particular object is of certain class or not okay.
It can sometime can also be shown under relational operator because it returns true or false only and
between two operand only.
So I will show you how to use it.
So type comparison instance of operator.
So take this example first.
So I have created one parent class and I have created this two childs child class one from this parent
class.
Child class two from this parent class okay.
So now let's say this is the this thing.
So now I am creating one object.
This object has child two object.
So now what I am trying to do is here check this System.out.println.
Does this object instance of this is the keyword operator instance of child class two right?
Yes, it will return true.
Right.
Because this is a type comparison, it will check that this object is of this class type or not?
This object or not?
But if I do object instance of child class one.
No, because this object is part of child class two, so it will return false, right?
Similarly, I can do so this.
Take this example.
I have created one child class one object.
This object.
Right.
And now I am checking.
Hey this child object which I have created.
Is it instance of parent class.
It will return true because even for the child you can.
It's a kind of a parent only, right?
It is of the same.
So this will return true.
This child object is instance of parent class right?
Similarly, if you have a string val you can say that hey Val is an instance of string or not, it will
return true.
But where this instance of very frequently used.
One is this where you have a parent child, right.
And you have to define whether this particular object, which you are getting because parent can hold
an object of any child.
So sometimes you have to find out it is of which child.
And another is when you get an object into this one.
So now here, if you see that object, we know that it's a parent of all the classes.
So I can create an object like I have created a random class object, I have created a class name like
random class created objects, put it under object.
Now I am doing hey, this unknown object is an instance of child class two.
This.
It will return false no?
So that's where it keeps it handy.
Where you you receiving an object of this class type object and then you want it to identify that,
hey, whether I am getting this or which one?
Okay.
Got it.
So these are all the operators.
And now we let we have to see one more important part is the precedence.
Right.
So all this operator.
So this is high priority.
And this is the.
Low priority.
So high priority.
Operator.
So you know that in an expression expression contain multiple operators also.
So which operator to execute first, for example five plus two into three.
What would be the value like.
What would be the value.
So how do we determine because that's where the operator precedence comes in.
So we go with this high priority to low priority okay.
So you go through this table right.
Uh sometimes it's very difficult to remember, like, what is the priority?
So always keep this operators in handy with you.
Like, so that whenever you want it to look out, you can check it out, right?
So here, if you see that the multiplication priority is much higher than the plus one.
So plus is your where this multiplication is this.
So this multiplicative higher priority than additive.
So multiplication will happen first right.
So it will happen like five plus three six.
And then the plus will happen.
Okay.
Now there sometimes will happen is let's say five into two divided by two.
So now here if you see that the into and divide into and divide are at same level same precedence.
Now which one to execute first?
Which one to execute first?
That's where associativity comes into the picture.
So associativity tells.
If two operators have the same precedence, then it's evaluated based on associativity.
Okay, so what is the multiplicative associativity?
It's associativity is left to right.
Okay.
So it will move from left to right.
So this first it found multiply.
So it will compute this ten divided by two.
And then it will move forward.
That's a divide ten divided by two five is the answer.
Okay.
So that's what associativity is.
Associative tells.
If two operators have the same precedent then which one to do the first right.
Then it's evaluated based on its associativity left to right or right to left right.
Similarly, assignment has right to left.
Let's say a equals two b equals to c.
So it's assignment associativity is right to left.
So right to left right to left right.
So that's why.
So C value is assigned to B first.
Then b value is assigned to a.
Okay.
So this is generally the operator precedence.
And uh just wanted to highlight one interview or one not one interview question like so one very very
simple.
Uh, this question like, uh, how do you identify that?
Just let's say I have integer A equals to four.
I'll give you one and I'll give you a one task.
Also, let's say I have put a plus.
Let's say I do plus plus.
Then I will do prefix.
Uh, let's say I do it here plus and let's say I do multiplication and I will do minus minus a and then
do plus a minus minus.
Okay.
So let's say I have this one.
So if you have to compute this one how you will compute it.
So here if you see that the first step would be.
Replace the.
Operand with value.
Okay.
So first a we have to change it to the value.
So let's change it.
A is four plus.
So this is your postfix.
I told you right.
First it will return its value and then will increment.
So this would be for a value has become five plus increment.
First a value and then return.
So five.
It will increment six into minus minus a.
So first it's a prefix.
So, so it will decrement first.
It will become five.
Plus a minus minus.
So first it will return and then decrement.
So what is the value five.
And then it will decrement four okay.
So what is that.
Four plus four plus six into five plus five.
Right now you know right what to do.
So what we have to do is the precedence which is the first precedence.
This.
So four plus four plus 30 plus five.
So it would be uh 35 plus 843.
So 43 is your answer here okay.
So you can also try it out.
And if you print the value of a a value would get printed as four.
Okay.
So I'll give you one.
Can you, uh, give me an answer of S if and x equals to two.
Okay.
Then what would be the output for this.
Let's say I'm printing z equals to plus plus x plus plus x divided by x plus plus minus one.
Okay.
This close this close.
So what iterates value z value is what plus plus x x equals to two plus plus x x plus plus minus one.
So what is its value.
Ping me in the comment section.
Okay so guys this is we have an operator.
This sixth and seven is very very important right.
So practice it.
Any doubt any question please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
Okay team.
Bye.