Welcome to concept and Coding.
And today we are going to start with Rest clients.
And we will understand it in depth.
But this is the prerequisite video video Rest template.
If you have any doubt regarding with this topic because that's where we have created the fundamentals.
Right.
So first have a look at this.
Then understanding Rest client would be little easy okay.
So if you remember in the previous video we know what are the limitations of Rest template.
So one of the biggest you can say that the limitation is so many overloaded methods.
It is very difficult to remember and maintain.
And that's what one of the advantage of Rest clients is that we are going to avoid these overloaded
methods.
But let's see what are the other alternatives of Rest templates.
So we can say that there are two alternative.
One is web client, another is rest line.
So here if you see the web client is asynchronous, non-blocking in nature means client.
Do not wait for the response from the server before continuing.
So this is used in reactive programming.
Generally when we will learn about spring web flux, I will cover web client into that one.
But generally we are covering synchronous communication right.
So Rest client is a synchronous blocking in nature like like a Rest template.
So means client wait for the response from the server before continuing okay.
And it is introduced in Spring framework six plus and Spring Boot three plus okay.
So you can say that this is a modern fluent based API that is more readable and easy to maintain.
Okay.
And this is more frequently used than Rest template.
We will see why.
Okay.
Now we have used one word fluent based API.
What is that?
Very, very important.
We need to understand this.
Then only we would be able to get how restaurant actually works.
Otherwise we might have to do lot of remembering thing like okay, now which method I have to use.
Okay.
So let's start with first very basic example.
Let's say that if order service has to invoke product service, what has to be done in rest line okay.
Then we will see that like okay once it is done how exactly it is working.
So we have a order service which is running on localhost 8081.
And the product service, I am running it on port 8082.
Now this is the first part in the App.config.
I am creating an object of Rest client.
So I am creating rest client dot create.
Internally it is calling rest client builder dot build.
So internally it does this.
Or you can even itself call Rest client or Builder.build.
Okay.
So this will create you a new object of Rest client.
It will give you a new object of Rest client.
Okay.
So that is the first step we have done.
Get an object of the rest client.
So in the second I have written very simple controller like we have seen in the rest template also.
Okay so I have written one API slash order slash id and this is my get method.
So here I am using this Rest client object which is created okay.
So I'm auto wiring it here.
Rest line.
Now see this rest line dot get dot URL which the exact URL which I want to hit which I want to invoke.
Dot retrieve dot body.
This is the body I wanted for my response string dot class.
So that's why I'm retrieving it in string only.
And here if you see I'm just printing out system dot dot print ln response from product API, which
is called from order service and whatever the response this is sending is this one.
And output is order called successful.
Now when I hit in the postman okay I call this slash order slash one.
Slash order slash one.
So order call is successful.
And in the logs it should print this response from product API call from order service.
And this is what I got from the.
Product service.
What?
It returns a string.
So here if you see this is the template which we are going to use for all different operations like
post put delete.
But here if you see its structure it's fluent.
So what is fluent.
Now you can ask one question.
Hey you are saying fluent.
This is fluent API.
What exactly fluent API means?
So see understand this one.
Fluent API means fluent API means chaining of methods.
Chaining of methods.
So what generally happen is you have method one.
Method one.
It is returning an object.
It is returning an object which Opens up different set of method.
Let's say method two.
Method three.
Method four.
Okay, so first you call method one.
Method one returns you an object which has this methods.
You can now call any of this method okay.
Now this method might return you different object which opens up different set of methods.
So what we are doing is we are doing chaining from method one.
We got some object.
Which opens up different set of methods.
So I have from method one I reach to method four.
From method four I reach to method six.
From method six I reach to some method eight, something like that.
So there is a chaining of method Okay.
So that's what we are doing here.
We are doing a chaining of method.
So these methods like dot get dot uri dot retrieve dot body.
They might not be present into just one class.
Okay.
Let's say this is class one.
This is class two.
This is class three.
This is class four.
So all these methods could be present into different different classes itself.
But the chaining is happening.
When I did dot get it returned me some object right.
Different different class object which has this URI method.
This dot uri might return me some object of totally different class which has this retrieve.
Now this retrieve again in turn, return me an object which has totally different, which belongs to
totally different class, this object and which has the body method.
So you got it.
I am doing a method chaining, and this method might be present in two different different methods.
Okay.
So that is known as fluent API.
I will show you how we are achieving this so that we don't have to, uh, up this thing that okay,
first I have to use get then I have to use URI.
Then I have to use retrieve.
Now, what is the purpose of using retrieve?
Why?
I have to keep body at last.
Right.
Because sequence matters, right?
In the chaining.
Because when we are saying chaining the chain should not break, the chain should not break.
If I directly call this method m2 of class two, it returning me an object of, let's say this object,
it returned me an object of this class.
So I can only goes to now class three.
Only I can now move back to class one.
This method one so chain will get break okay.
So sequence method matters in the chaining of methods and in the fluent API.
Okay.
And this is just an example for Get.
No matter we are going to use post put delete.
We have.
We are going to follow the same template.
We don't have to remember different different method overloaded methods which is there in the rest template.
Okay so that's what I told you.
What does fluent API means?
Fluent API means chaining of method calls each call.
Each method call returns an object of next step okay that expose next set of operations.
I have already explained what when we say when I say fluent API, what exactly it means.
So now our next doubt is how this chaining works in Rest client so that we understand better How this
dot get dot url dot header dot.
After that retrieve then dot body will work.
How it's working like this sequence is right, but I don't have to remember it right.
So how to grabs the like base so that we don't have to remember that okay.
Can I use header before URI or what have you or I can use after retrieve.
Is it possible.
Does chaining break or not.
So let's see this class diagrams.
So this class diagram you can say that this is the start of chain.
First this is the start of chain rest line.
So in the first step we are already creating a object of rest client.
Right.
Once we get the object of rest line then we have different methods that we can invoke.
Get, post, put, delete.
Okay then this is the second.
So here if you see these are many interfaces URI spec which expose methods related to setting the URI.
Either you can give me string or you can create a URI builder itself and then return me the URI.
Okay, then you have one interface for request header spec, which has various method to set the headers
and cookies.
Then we have one interface which is child of both URI spec.
So it extends URI spec and Request header spec.
Similarly we have one interface for body.
So during post and put we need to set the content type content length body right.
So this interface expose those methods.
Then there is an interface which is a child of both like request header URI.
It's a child of request header URI and the request body spec.
And then there is one implementation method default request body URL spec.
So it it's an implementation of this which ultimately provide implementation for all of these abstract
methods.
It all it provide implementation for all of this.
So you can say that this is ultimately the request.
No matter whether if you are creating get then also this object has to be created.
If you are building post or put or delete, no matter what operation you are doing, we have to create
an object of this and forget we might have to fill up some operation for post.
We might have to fill up some fields like I need to fill up the body.
So now the only thing is how to fill up this.
But one thing is second step is we have to create an object of this.
But we have to do chaining.
Like first I have to set URI, then I can set headers.
Then I can set body.
Then what next.
Okay so request build up.
And also if you see this is the third part where we have something called response spec okay.
Response spec actually knows how to handle the response.
So once we get a response from the server we have to do it's mapping.
Like I have to map whatever the object I am getting, I have to map it to string or I have mapped,
I have to map it to this object.
Okay.
And also if there is an exception How to do an exception handling like if the status is for access,
how?
What to do if status is five, what to do.
So this interface response spec has support us like on status.
So this is used for exception handling.
Okay.
And here if you see it has a method like two entity two body which ultimately helps in like uh calling
the execute method.
Or you can say that actual internally it actually invoke the method which is responsible for creating
TCP connection, sending HTTP requests, getting the response.
Okay.
And after that, this interface and this concrete class itself Help us.
In what?
Once the response we get back.
How to handle the response, we'll see that.
But this is a very high level.
I am telling you, these are the classes which we are going to use in our get put post operation.
But now we just need to see how the chaining works.
Okay.
So first thing first you need to know a little bit about generic class and wildcard and Java which I
have already covered in the Java series.
Okay.
So here if you see there are lot of generic types we are using, we are using wildcard, we are using
generic types.
Right.
So you should not get confused that what exactly and how it is working.
So now let's start with the get operation.
So here the first thing which we are doing is creating an object of rest line.
So either you can do dot create or you can do dot builder dot build right.
Okay.
So internally create also does the same thing only.
Okay.
So objective here is first get an object of Rest client.
Now once we get an object of rest line what I am doing now see the chaining.
The first I am calling dot get method.
So here if you go into the rest client interface okay.
When you invoke a get it creates an object of this class default request body URL spec.
So as I told you that ultimately we have to create an object of this because it has all the fields which
is required to make a TCP connection to send HTTP request and the response also how to handle the response.
So ultimately this object we have to create.
So during get it creates an object of default request body URI spec and set it HTTP method to get.
Okay.
And what is the return type.
It is returning.
It is returning request header URI specs.
The next object.
Okay so I am creating an object of this.
See.
So this object it's a child of request body URI spec which is again a child of request header URI spec
which is I am returning.
So it's a valid return type, even though I'm creating an object of this and returning this.
But the return type I can write this okay.
Because this is the parent of this one.
So from the get I am done.
This returns me an object of request header URI URL.
Okay, so now I am here.
From this I have.
See this is a child of two interfaces means I can invoke from here I can invoke the method of this interface
and this interface.
Okay.
So now next set of operations got open.
So currently I am going and invoking dot URI.
So also see the how sequencing matter.
The chain should not break okay I will also show you one of the flow where the chain breaks also.
So from here request header uri spec I decided to invoke the URI method okay okay.
Since this URI interface, which one is the implementation?
The same one.
We have already created an object in the uh.
Step one.
So this URI, it will fill up this URI.
right.
So I invoke this method uri and pass the string.
So internally it will create a URI object of this using some URI builder and set this field into this
object.
Now what?
Its return type.
Its return type is this.
Any child or even this class itself.
So S extends.
So what does it mean S extends.
And let's say class name.
So this means that the return type or here what the type here is the type here could be any either this
class this class name a let's say any class which is child of this class name A or this itself.
So either this class name A itself or any child of it.
So child one, child two.
Child three.
So here I can get either class name A or C, one child one or child two or child three.
All are valid.
Okay.
That's what because I am bounding the limit of the type.
What I can get here in the URI spec.
What I can get here, either I can get this type or its child type.
So either I can get this type request header spec or its any of its child.
Okay, so now since I don't know what child it is because request header spec which is this request
header spec.
It has many child.
So this is child one.
This is child two.
This is child three.
It could be many childs right.
I don't know specifically which child it is corresponding to Do because here I am sending wild card.
So I do not know because the same wild card is passed to here.
Same wild card is passed to here.
So I do not know which child I am referring to.
So it uses by default the parent.
Okay, so now I dot url return me an object of the next.
Class or interface which is request header spec.
So S is now request header spec.
So now I am calling accept method.
So it is calling the accept method on this interface.
And it has its implementation might be provided here.
Accept implementation would be there.
So it might be setting some header.
Okay.
Now what is the return type of this s here itself.
So S extends request header spec.
Again the same thing.
The type could be request header respect the same class it is now calling to its same itself or its
any of its child.
But since we don't know what child it is either child one, child two.
Child three the by default it is pointing to itself.
Request header.
Respect.
So for the except method return type its itself.
Okay, so you are getting an object, but that object is the same same class itself.
Now here I am calling more methods like dot header.
So I am also able to set the header.
So I'm calling invoking a method which is present in now the same class.
So this header also return type is S which is again it's of same type same class type.
Okay.
So from header I also get a return object which is again of same type.
So I'm able to call the method retrieve, which is also present into the same class.
So retrieve is also present here in this itself.
So I invoke retrieve.
Now the when I call retrieve its return type is different.
Now means it is returning me an object of some different class.
Okay.
So what it does.
So retrieve creates an object of this response aspect.
So default response spec is an implementation of this.
So it create an object and return me this.
So I'm getting an object of response spec now.
So I'm getting an object of response spec means I am getting a new object which has different set of
methods.
Now I can call methods which are present into the objects which this retrieve has returned.
So I got a response spec object.
So from there I called the body.
So I called the body.
So its implementation is present here.
So this body internally calls the method which actually does the work of creating a TCP connection and
sending this.
So here it invokes the exchange method.
And exchange method is again present into this header spec.
Okay.
So it is calling this one.
Okay.
So the reason why we come from request header respect to this response spec.
Because in the body before we calling this exchange method which actually handles create a TCP connection
send the request get the response.
We are passing this functional interface implementation here.
Like how to.
How to do the mapping of response.
How to handle the exception.
We provide the implementation of this functional interface and then call this.
And this here it provide an implementation of exchange where ultimately it goes at and create a TCP
connection.
Send a request and get a response.
So here if you see the flow become complete.
But I will also show you like if we don't follow the sequence how the flow breaks okay.
Don't worry about first of all don't worry about if you don't understand response spec clearly, if
you don't understand how this connection is happening, how this exchange works currently, I want you
to focus on the flow.
How this understand fluent API.
What is fluent API.
So even though we are calling this sequence of methods how exactly it moves from one class to different
class, then another to different class.
Okay, so chaining of methods which are present into different different classes.
Okay.
So see can a flow be broken if you don't follow a sequence.
Let's see that.
I create an object of the rest line.
I do rest line dot get when I did a get.
You know that what happened.
It will create me an object of this and it will set the HTTP method.
Get and return me an object of request header URL specs, which is a valid even though I am returning
this object, because this is ultimately a child of this only.
So it's a valid return type.
So now I got an object.
So I am here now.
So from this I have an option to call URI or this methods because this class is a child of both.
It's a child of both.
So now, instead of calling Uri, I decided to call the accept.
So now I am calling this accept.
So what?
Accept will do.
Accept.
Set the header.
It's inside a header.
It will set.
Accept application slash JSON header and value.
Okay.
But what it's return type.
Return type is S which is either request header spec which is the same class or any of its child.
Since we don't know which child it is.
Child one.
Child two.
Child three because currently it is coming as from here, it is coming as question mark wildcard and
the same we have passed here.
Okay, so it is coming as a wildcard, but we know that either it's a request header respect or any
of its child.
But since we don't know the exact child it's always safe to treat it as the same parent only.
Okay, so it is now returning an object of itself.
Request header spec.
So this returning an object of the same request header spec.
So now can you call URL now.
No because this is a total different interface which has this URI method.
And it is now not present into request header spec.
Now the chain is broken.
You can't set the URI so means your you can't even send the request.
URI is not itself set.
So you have to follow a proper sequence that are from method one.
I goes to method two.
From method two I goes to method three like this.
And the chain complete.
Got it.
So similarly, let's see a post.
And while we reached till the delete right.
This whole diagram will get clear to you for sure.
Okay, so first thing first, creating an object of Rest client.
Now first thing I am doing is calling post.
So now Rest client has post method.
The same post will do.
Creating an object of this and sending the http method to post and it returns this object.
Default request.
So here what is the return type request body URI spec.
Is it valid?
So this default request body URI is a child of request body URI spec Request.body URI spec we are sending.
So it's a valid.
So I am sending.
It's this it's parent only.
Okay so I created an object of this but return type I put it as this.
And it's a valid because it's a parent of this one.
Okay.
So now I reached till this point.
From this point it's a child of.
So this is its parent one.
This is parent two interfaces.
Right.
So I can invoke methods which is here invoke method which is here and which is again a child of this
class.
And this class.
So means from this point I can invoke any method.
Either you or I either accept header, retrieve, exchange body, any method because this class is a
child of all.
So what I did I call the URI because chaining matters.
I don't want to break the chain.
If I call accept, I can't move back to URI because nobody is returning me an object of URI spec again.
So that's why from here I call the URI.
So URI will set me the URL and what its return type.
Now understand that what would be the return type.
So here if you see it is a child of request header URI spec.
And what is the type it is passing request body spec okay.
So now this will translate to request body spec which is this one okay.
And is it fulfilling this either either parent request or respect or any of its child.
So here this is parent or any of its child.
So this is its child.
This is child.
So I'm putting one of its child only.
Request body spec is child of this only.
So it's a valid one okay.
And in the URI spec I'm passing this what I'm getting.
So here itself this get translated to request body spec.
And ultimately this S itself is request body spec object.
So means I reached till this point now.
Sorry.
So now in the URI, return me an object of request body spec which has its own methods to set the body.
Okay.
Set the body.
Set the content type, content length.
It has many methods.
So now we can invoke that.
And also we can invoke its parent.
We can also invoke its parent accept header retrieve.
So I am calling the its parent method.
Except I am calling its parent method accept.
So it will set the header.
But what would be its return type.
Its return type is S.
So here if you see this request body spec extends the parent and pass.
What is the type.
that's itself.
So this type is translate to request body spec itself.
And this S itself.
S get translated to this request.
Body spec means this class itself.
So means this return type is this object itself.
So I will reach to this point itself again.
So after accept I got an object of request body spec class itself.
From there I decided again to call the parent, which it returned.
Return me an S which is again object of request body spec itself.
Then I call the body method which is present inside this.
Sorry, which which is present inside this.
I set the body because during post operation, let's say I want to create a new operation.
I set the body okay and it returns me same object.
Now from there I call the retrieve because still I can call the parent node, right?
So I call the retrieve.
So I reached till this point now.
So from retrieve what it will do is it will get me an object of default response spec.
It will create me an object of this which is used to, uh, to handle the response.
And it returns me this response spec.
So now this returned me an object of different class response spec.
And then I call the two entity of that one.
So I call the response spec two entity.
So two entity.
If you see that it will internally invoke the exchange method which is present inside this header itself.
And this exchange implementation is present here in its implementation.
And all the request is already properly filled up headers and all so it knows how to make a connection.
But it is coming from here, as I already told you, that we call this exchange method.
But in the exchange function we tell this is a lambda expression.
We pass the functionality, how to handle response, how to handle status or exception handling.
And do I need to close the connection response connection or not?
True.
False.
So that info come from this and your flow get completes.
So at this point of time internally it calls this exchange method which create TCP connection, send
request, get response do mapping and give us the response.
Similarly delete.
So you can go through delete by yourself right.
But now you will get the flow.
What?
Till this point, my aim is that you understand what is fluent API and how Rest client adhere to this
framework of fluent API from one method to another, which belongs to different class, and these are
the classes involved in the rest API.
Delete is also very same like first goes to delete.
It creates an object of this.
Then it will return header url spec.
So I come here.
Then I call uri from URI.
It would be like so it's a question mark right.
So I don't know which exact child.
So I can't go to this or this.
So that's why I go to its parent.
So it called retrieve it.
Get me an object of response from response.
I ultimately invoke this two bodyless entity because in delete you don't receive body and send body
okay.
Then ultimately internally it invokes this exchange method and I pass the.
This functional interface expression here itself.
So we will see that.
But I hope the fluent API is clear.
If anybody asks you in future is Rest API is fluent.
Yes.
How?
Now I believe you should be able to tell how what classes are involved and how these classes are actually
linked together to make the rest API fluent.
Sorry if I stretched a bit, but it is very important to understand the fluent API.
Now let's go and see exception handling.
So now I am very going, very specific going inside this response spec.
Okay so see this one I am creating a controller.
So I have written I want to do a get call dot get I specify the URI, the endpoint which I want to hit
when I call dot retrieve.
Now we know that when we call retrieve, we get an object of response spec.
Okay.
So it creates.
So we have a constructor.
In this constructor it set this object request header spec.
Because from here itself we are invoking from request header spec.
If you remember the diagram from request header spec itself we are calling the retrieve.
Okay.
So it has the reference.
So this gets set.
Okay.
But now I got an object of the response spec.
Now till now nothing happened.
So the even though the name said retrieve I am not retrieving the response.
I am not hitting the client or server.
I am not getting the actual response.
It is just giving me the response object.
That's all.
Nothing much till now.
Response object means this response spec object.
Now I am filling it up.
First I am telling it on status.
I am telling it that once you get a response in future, how you should handle the exception.
So I am calling its on status method and it has a response error handler which has this.
So response error handler is a functional interface which has.
This method has error.
It has only one abstract method has error which accept response.
So I am providing its lambda expression response.
If response is for access means some invalid input request, then I am just saying my custom exception.
Throw this Else if if response is five xx something wrong at the server side itself there.
Okay, so it's an internal server or null.
Uh just put internal server error.
Okay.
We do not know what exception come.
Okay.
Otherwise return false has error.
No.
No error.
Okay.
So this implementation.
So this implementation I passed into this handler.
And now this when this on status get invoked after retrieve I get an object of response spec.
From this response spec I called on status.
So it update the status handler this field.
Okay, so with this info, whatever the info I provided here that if for access this implementation,
this implementation ultimately gets set into this status handler, okay.
And after that it will return me an object.
So what object on status is returning?
On status is returning where it is on status is returning me.
The same response is back itself.
So I am whatever the object which I am getting.
It is like body is itself the same.
So I'm getting the response object itself.
Then I invoke the body.
Now in the body, if you see what happened, just see little bit more concentration here.
So in body I tell whatever the response I get I need to map to a string.
Okay.
So now here if you see the body in the body what exactly happens is it calls execute and extract which
internally call this exchange method.
But what I am passing here I am passing it this.
When I called exchange it has it required this exchange function, this exchange function I am providing
here.
Actually it is the framework which is providing request response read body.
Okay.
How you should once you get a response how you should handle it.
So here if you see this read body has like message converter like whatever the first you handle the
status handler we have already had set the status handler right.
If status is for access, throw this exception.
If it is five access, throw this exception.
Else false move ahead and after that it will go.
And whatever the response I get it will convert to its this type string dot class.
It will do map mapping.
It will do mapping to this.
So all this logic I provided into this lambda expression.
This function.
Okay.
So once now at this point of time I will call tcp http request.
And once I get the response ultimately then it will execute this function.
We'll see that.
Okay.
So on status is used for handling the exception.
And this is where how we can handle the exception.
So if you want full control over response building.
So someone says that hey why I have to call from here.
Why I have to do retrieve why my control first go to here and from again I have to come to this okay.
Why I since when I am in this method.
Okay, I added the except I added the header instead of calling retrieve canine directly called exchange
and I will provide my implementation that how the response should be handled.
Yeah you can do that.
That's what I am doing it here.
So I did the get it returned me an object.
From there, I call the Uri.
Uri returned me an object.
From there I called the dot exchange itself.
Okay, because after Uri I reached to this point.
I reached to this point.
After I reached to this point.
From there, I directly called exchange.
I don't call retrieve now because retrieve only helps me in providing this implementation, right?
This implementation, this implementation.
Okay, retrieve only help me getting this implementation.
So I am providing my, uh, since this is the function interface, I'm providing my implementation here.
So request response if response is for do this.
If it is five, do this else.
This is how you should map the response which once means you will get from the server.
So whatever the response dot get body.
I am currently doing mapping to string.
I'm reading I'm from the stream.
I am copying it to string object.
Okay, now you don't need this response spec.
Now you don't need response spec methods.
You don't want on status.
You don't want body.
You don't want to entity.
You don't want anything because you have already passed the.
Exchange function like how you should handle the response.
Okay.
Now let's see a little bit insight into the exchange method.
So once we call the exchange, either by directly us or this response, it's pack itself internally
when we call dot body or dot to entity internally it call exchange method of this one it called exchange
method of this one.
Right.
So let's see its implementation.
So this is the implementation of exchange.
So this is the first step where it create a request okay.
This is the place where it actually creates a object of.
HTTP client.
And remember that in Rest client this HTTP client is different than in HTTP 1.1 okay this is different
object I will show you.
So this is the first.
So here if you see second is calling execute.
This is where internally it calls create TCP connection send request get response.
And once you get the response we have to do the mapping.
So here it is calling exchange function dot exchange.
So we are running the exchange function.
So what are the functions we are passing here.
Right.
We saw that this exchange function this one this is exchange function okay.
And here.
We are passing this exchange function.
If you are using this response spec which tells us how to map the response and how to handle the exception.
So this is running at the third step.
Once you get the response it will run the exchange function.
So first it is calling the create request, which it returns, which it calls this default factory,
which is JDK client.
HTTP request factory.
This is in the rest line.
This is the default.
It will create an object of HTTP client.
Again, this HTTP client is different than what we used in HTTP one HTTP 1.1 version.
This HTTP client is present inside this package.
Java dot net dot http and this HTTP client supports takes care of everything TCP connection caching
your sending request response right?
It takes care of everything.
Also, this HTTP client has support for HTTP version 1.1 and HTTP ATP version two.
Remember that Rest template can only handle 1.0 and 1.1.
It can handle till two.
If you remember, HTTP version two can send client server can send multiple concurrent request HTTP
request and the server can concurrently send the response.
But in 1.1 it's always like request response request response.
So if you want HTTP version two, you have to use the Rest client because this latest HTTP client object
provides support for that.
Okay.
So it creates an object of HTTP client returns it okay.
After that it will call the execute method.
This execute method internally calls the sender.
Okay, so we have already created an object of HTTP client.
So using that it calls the send a sync.
Even though it's a sender sing it's not actually Rest.
Client is a synchronous.
So it actually wait for the response.
It here it do wait it wait for it to finish.
So I told you this HTTP client internally takes care of connection caching support, provide support,
sending requests, getting the response and ultimately it give us the response.
Now once we get the response it calls the third exchange function.
Exchange function.
You know that which now know how to handle the response.
So here we have created one exchange function.
How if error comes how to handle it.
If this exception occur throw this exception.
If this exception comes throw this error.
So otherwise how to map the body either in a string or either map to some different object.
So all this logic present inside this here, which now executed at this point of time.
Okay, so this is the high level flow for it.
Now one more thing is if you see interceptor work is also very simple into the rest line.
So I have an order service product service.
Now if I have to add an interceptor first what I have did is I have created an interceptor my custom
request interceptor and implement the client HTTP request interceptor.
You have to implement this one.
Now you have to provide an implementation of this method.
So what I have to do is whatever the request I have, I am fetching its header.
Now I am adding certain more data, so I'm intercepting the request and adding appending some value.
So I have appended one header and proceed the execution now.
Okay, so it provide me all the methods I have to just say that okay I have intercepted it, I have
done whatever.
Now you go ahead and execute.
Okay.
So that's the first thing we have to do.
And in the second while creating a Rest client instance.
Right.
We can call dot builder dot build.
So there we can set the interceptor.
So this is our interceptor which we have created.
So I have created an object of my interceptor here.
And I have set it here.
So while creating an object of Rest client we can set an interceptor.
And that's all.
So this is as it is what we have written before.
I have a rest line client.
I did dot get dot url dot retrieve two entity and that's all.
Ultimately, if you see when the control comes here, invoke it.
It has the header X custom header.
My value whatever I have intercepted and set.
Okay.
And if the question coming to your mind that at what place in this uh, so we have an exchange right.
We have seen step one, step two, step three.
In what exact place this interception catch.
So if you see when we do execute this is the place where we call TCP connection.
Send the request receive the response.
So before calling this method the interceptor will get invoked.
So before this method interceptor get invoked.
And after that we just uh Are here.
Interceptor got invoked.
We did whatever we have to do on request.
After that, we have to call execute so that it can move ahead.
Okay.
So this is all about rest line.
To be honest, I can understand here it is not that simple.
If you are going in deep I can even stick to one level higher.
I don't even I really thought multiple times should I go into this flow.
Because this is not simple to understand.
There are so many jargons, generic types and all using so it making the flow a little difficult.
I was not able to decide whether I should go or not in depth this much, or I just cover that.
What is fluent API and this methods which are available.
But I took a chance that if I'm able to explain this clearly or not.
I tried a lot to create a better example and this diagram with flow.
I took a chance that if I can explain this complicated flow with ease.
So please have a look one more time you will get understand about properly what is fluent API.
How this flow chaining happens works right?
If you want to handle the exception handling, how you can do that right?
Exception handling is also very simple okay.
This response is back.
What is its use right.
How it's helping us in the mapping response mapping and exception handling.
So all these things you will try with your hand right.
You will get it clear.
If you get any doubt please feel free to comment and we can discuss further.
Right.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.