# Control Flow Statements | Decision Making, Looping & Branching Statements

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in Java we are going to do control flow statements.
Right.
So control flow statements are of three types.
One is decision making statements where all if if else condition generally comes in.
Second one is your iterative statement where the for loops and the loops which comes into the picture.
And the third one is branching statement where break and continue comes in.
So we'll go further into this one and just remember that, uh, their switch expression is introduced
from Java 12.
Right before that.
If you have a JDK installed of previous version, and if you try to use a switch expression, you might
not be able to use it.
Okay.
So let's further go ahead into decision making statement.
So this is very very little bit straightforward.
Not a very uh hard topic to understand but still, it's good that we will cover everything about it
so that if anybody is new to this one, they have an in-depth knowledge about it.
If you already know some of this thing, please feel free to skip it.
Okay, so decision making statement first.
If then and it is sometimes also known as simple if condition.
So what does it says that if condition is true then if block will get executed.
So let's say this is the simple scenario.
So you have if condition which is always the whatever the expression you will give, it should either
return true or false.
If it is true then this code within this block will get executed, otherwise it will get skipped.
Take this simple example.
Here I have a main class.
Write any name and just a main method.
So I have taken any method.
So this is the main functionality which I wanted to show.
So I have created an integer variable value ten.
And what if condition I have put if value is greater than eight, ten is greater than eight.
It will return true.
So this expression is now converting into true right?
So if value ten is greater than eight true then this block will get executed.
So it will print only get executed when value is greater than eight right.
So it get printed.
Plus after inside this block it will get as a normal flow.
Like whatever the block statement, whatever the code statement after this block will get executed.
So this block will also get executed.
Okay.
So this is simple if there is something called if else.
So it is similar to it.
But also what we have is if condition is true.
If this condition is true then this block will get executed.
Same as earlier.
Here we have else part also.
Else.
If this is false, then run this code block.
Okay.
If condition is true.
If block will get executed.
If condition is false.
If this condition is false, then this code will get else block will get executed.
Okay.
So now let's say here what I have is.
What I have is variable seven.
I am checking condition if seven greater than eight false.
So what will get printed.
Else block.
This code will execute if value is less than or equal to eight less than or equal to eight.
And after that the rest of the code.
Okay.
The third one is if else if ladder.
Later.
Right.
So what?
Here we have is so there we have it contains if statement with multiple or chain of else if statement.
It evaluates the condition from top and goes to the bottom.
And any condition get true the block will get executed.
Okay.
What does it says that if else if letter.
So we have one if statement and we have chain of else if else if else if there could be many else if
right and last one is else okay.
So it's a chain of chain of else if statement.
Right.
And it goes from top to bottom.
So first it check if condition.
If this is true this block will get executed.
If this is false next block.
Else if will get evaluated.
If this is false next else if will get evaluated.
If any of them become true that particular block will get executed if none of the block if none of the
condition elsif, or if condition gets true, the else block will get ultimately get invoked, right?
So else part is, you can say that the if none of the condition get true, then it only get executed.
So for example value is 13.
So first if statement will get evaluated if value equals to equals to one no.
So again.
Now second else if value equals to equals to two no 13 is equals to equals to no.
Then.
So here we are going top to bottom each if else if we are evaluating from value equals to equals to
three.
No.
Then if none of the condition is evaluated what will get executed.
The else part right.
So else part value is 13.
It will print and the rest of the code Okay.
So you can have it.
You can keep it or not keep it.
You can even have just simple if else if else if that's also.
So if you want certain kind of okay.
If none of the condition is matched I need to run certain generic code.
Then you can put else part right.
But it is not mandatory to put.
Then another type of if statement we have is nested.
If statement right it is if else statement within if block or else block.
So you know that we have two block right.
If condition.
Else we have condition.
So within that itself you can also have another if else.
So there can be nested right.
There is no constraint like you can have two level three level.
So just see this is simple example.
So here I have a value which is defined as a 13 integer value if value is greater than eight, true.
So this.
If block will get executed, it will go inside this right.
So this will print value is greater than eight.
So value is greater than eight is got printed.
Now here if you see that this is the nested file.
So within an if condition I have put another if else.
So if value is greater value is less than 15.
Yes 13 is less than 15.
So this if block will get executed because it got true value is greater than eight, but less than 15
value is greater than eight but less than 15 okay.
So once this got printed this block so else block will not get executed.
Because if got executed.
And after that, uh, this rest of the code will get executed.
Okay.
So you see that here?
One if another that I have put another if else you can put more if here inside this.
So there is no you can say that restriction like how many nested if you can have how many nested or
if else you can have right here itself.
You can also put if else inside else you can put if else.
So nested if means if else block within an if else block right.
You can have any number of levels, no control over it.
Okay.
So now there are certain uh things which we have called switch which is little bit, you can say that
more information which we have now.
So we gonna discuss about switch statement switch expression which is latest.
So switch statement.
It is similar to if else if ladder.
So whatever the if else if ladder we have right.
If else if ladder Later if else if else if multiple.
So it is very very similar to it right.
How it is get similar to it.
First don't see this diagram.
First see this syntax first and then we'll see how it is very very similar to this.
So this is the syntax.
So switch is the keyword switch.
We will have an expression here okay.
So we have an expression here.
Then we have different cases.
Case value one.
If expression and value one got matched up this code statement will get executed.
We have used break here.
I'll tell you why it is used okay.
If value one is not matched it will again like if else right later top to bottom.
We will go and check each case case case and whichever case, whichever case value got matched with
an expression, that code block will get executed Turn right and then else if else if later.
What is the default thing?
Generic thing we are using?
Like else, if nothing got matched up, what should get executed?
Similarly, in switch statement we have something called default.
If nothing, no case value is matched up with an expression.
This will get executed.
Okay, so now let's switch.
See this how it's gonna look like.
So here we have the switch expression.
This is our switch expression.
Now we are here matching top to bottom.
We are going.
So first we are matching the expression value.
So expression will always give you one value.
So we will get that value and compare it with case value one.
If that got true.
If it is true we will run the code.
This is the code we have right.
And if you put a break we will get out of the switch.
If you put a break, we will get out of the switch.
But let's say if we don't put a break, what will happen?
Let's say if it is a true, we will execute the code.
If you don't use the break, it will execute the second code also.
Right?
It will evaluate it.
The second one also.
Okay.
So but here we will see that.
Let's see that.
What if it is become false.
So if this expression value is not equals to the case value one.
If it is false what it will do is it will go from top to bottom.
Now match with the second case value okay.
If this case value got matched true it will execute that code.
It will execute its code right.
And after that we will put a break and it will get end of the switch.
Right?
So it goes from all let's say if this is so this is if this is also false, then ultimately let's say
if all the cases has been exhausted finished.
Ultimately if we have used default.
So it will run this, go inside this default one and run the code right.
And we will break it and it goes end of the switch.
So break at default is optional.
If default is used at the end.
Right.
There is no sequencing in the switch that this case should be at top.
This case should be at bottom.
Default should be at last.
There is no sequencing in switch.
Even default can be used at top also.
Right I will show you with all example.
So don't worry about that one.
So.
But first understand that what switch statement it is very to if else if later I think if that is clear,
we can proceed further, like with more different, different examples of switch that why it is very
very similar to if else if ladder you got it like we are going from top to bottom.
Whatever the expression we have, we are going to matching with each use cases and if any of the case
value get matched up, that particular code get executed.
If none of the case value get matched up, we will execute the default one.
Okay.
So now let's see.
And different different examples first right.
So this is one simple example I have taken integer a equals to one integer b equals to two.
This is my switch statement right.
And what is the expression I am using a plus b one plus two.
So it would be like what would be the expression value is three.
So now here I am putting different case.
Case one.
Case two.
Case three.
Default.
So.
Case.
So what is the a plus B is three one plus two right.
So now what it will do is it will first match with the case value one.
If one equals to equals to three.
No it is not.
So it will check this.
Now second case what is the value.
It's two is two equals to equals to three.
No it will goes to the third case.
So this case what is the case value.
We have provided three.
If it three equals to equals to three.
Yes.
Then what.
It will print system dot dot dot print ln a plus b is three.
And now we have done a break.
So as soon as you do a break it will go out of this block.
Right.
So it will print a plus B is three right.
So you see that it is very very similar to if else if ladder part.
So now let's see.
Different.
Different uh, sample also.
Right.
So let's say that.
I am using without break statement.
I told you, right.
What?
I told you that if you don't break it right, it will go.
And to the second case, let's see this case.
How?
So check this out A plus B what is that again three.
So first it check case.
What is the value one.
One is equals to equals to three.
No it will goes to this two is equals to equals to three.
No it will go here three is equals to equals to three.
Yes.
So it will print a plus b is three.
It printed this.
But here if you see that I haven't used the break statement.
So what.
I told you that if the break statement is not used, what it will do is it will just go and execute
the code of the next one.
So here it doesn't break happen.
So what it will do is it will execute this below code also.
System.out.println.
A plus b is for it printed that also right.
So here also I haven't used the break statement.
So what it will do is it will check the next.
So next is nothing but a default.
So it will print a plus B which is nothing but a three.
Okay so you got it.
So why break is important.
So if break is not used what it will do is it will execute the next code statement.
If again next code statement doesn't use the break it will again bottom follow the next code.
Okay.
Let's see one more use case.
So here what I'm doing is.
So till now, whatever the example we have used is use default at last.
And I told that if default is used at last then we don't need optional.
Then we don't need break.
Break is an optional because default is last after that.
Even if you don't break it, there is no code.
But what if default is used before?
Because I told you in switch case there is nothing.
No sequencing, right?
A plus B is three.
So case one not match case two not match case three.
Right.
So case three A plus B is three.
Yes this will get executed a plus B is three will get executed.
Now here.
Do we have a break statement.
No there is no break statement.
This will get executed.
Case four A plus B is four.
This will get executed now.
Here.
Does any other here?
No, nothing.
So now here.
If you see that default is not initiated.
So there is nothing like default will always be get executed at the end.
Nothing.
So case three.
What is the below case?
It has it just run its code.
So case four also doesn't have a break.
So it check.
Hey is there any case or default mentioned below me?
No.
That's all.
It doesn't print anything.
Got it.
So here.
What I wanted to show you that default can be at anywhere.
Cases can be at any sequence.
Doesn't matter.
But remember if you are using default other than at last you have to use break.
It's now it's not optional because if you don't use a break again it will print its bottom one right.
So this is one of the thing which we have to know.
So here I have showed this one a plus B is nine plus 110.
So for each cases first it will evaluate.
Case one does not match two does not match three doesn't match four doesn't match.
So it will look for default.
Okay.
Default.
Found it.
So what it will do is it will print A plus B which is ten.
Then.
See I haven't used break so it will print the next one.
System.out.println a plus b is two a plus b is two.
But here let's see the break and it will go out of this switch.
Now it will not print the below code.
Got it.
Let's see another use case which I wanted to show you for the switch case is that we can combine the
cases also.
For example, this is the like.
I have taken a variable month as an string march.
Right now here I have put a different cases like January case January case February case March.
So all three cases, if any of them is true, then this code will get executed and after that will break
it.
So now you can see that what we are doing is we are clubbing the cases also.
So this is also possible.
So this is one way of clubbing and another way of clubbing is case.
January comma.
February comma.
March like this.
Also you can club it right.
Either you can have in different lines right.
Or either you can have in the same line.
I think I have shown that also.
Yeah.
Case January, February, March.
You can also have in the same line also same thing.
Right.
But what I wanted to show you that you can club the cases if they have a similar code to be run right.
So so March.
March will be like January, February, March.
So yes, it will come true.
So month value is in quarter one.
It will print break.
It will go out of the switch statement.
Right.
So this is similar.
But I just wanted to show you that in a single line also we can do.
So these are all the different ways switch can be used.
But few things we need to take care of this switch right.
First of all two cases cannot have the same value.
We cannot have like case one we cannot have another case one that is not allowed.
Right.
So two cases cannot have the same value.
Uh, your uh, the compiler will not even allow it.
Second, switch expression data type And case value.
Constant data type should be same, right?
What does it mean that here if you see that what I am trying to do is that a plus B what it is integer.
So this should be also an integer.
It can't be like switch.
Let's say I'm looking for certain string.
Let's say march.
I can't use like say case two.
No.
So this is a string expression is a string and case value is integer.
No that is not allowed.
So this is a string.
This should also be a string January.
Right.
So you got it right.
What does it say.
Switch expression data type and the case value.
Data type should be same.
Third the case value should be either literal or constant.
What does it mean?
So now you one thing.
You might have noticed that with the different examples we have used in the expression, we are able
to use the variables.
But can we use variable here?
We can, but those variables should be either constant.
So either we can use literals or constant only at the case right.
For example take this example I have an integer value equals to one right.
Now switch statement I am using an expression two plus one minus two.
Right.
So it's three minus two, which is nothing but a one.
Now here in the case instead of writing like this case one I am using.
variable case value.
So here if you see that compiler has shown me the error right.
Why?
Because in the case what value we can use either literals or constant either use one two, three, four
hard coded constants.
Or if you are wanted to make use of variable, it should be constant.
And in Java how you make a field value constant, you can put a final.
Once you declare a final any variable, once it is initialized, you can't change its value.
So now here, if you see that error is gone now why?
Because now this is constant.
Its value cannot be changed, right?
So in the case the value should be either literal or constant.
Right?
All use cases need not to be handled.
Need not to be handled right.
I'll tell you why this I mentioned.
So here, if you see that a simple example I have used of an enum.
You know that enum is a constant.
That's why I am able to use it here, right?
So let's say I have de as an enum.
Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday.
Friday.
Saturday.
Sunday.
I am using a de enum value as an expression.
I have put one variable put a Friday.
Now I am putting a cases case Monday I have used.
I have used certain code like output value.
I'm assigning it one break Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday.
But here if you see that I haven't put Friday, Saturday or Sunday code.
Also I haven't put the default also.
So what would be the output for this one.
So my expression enum value was Friday.
So it will match for this case Monday.
No.
Tuesday.
No.
Wednesday?
No.
Thursday?
No.
So nothing will get executed.
So what would output?
Value would be zero.
So here what I meant to say is that all use cases need not need to be handled.
So it's not.
So switch statement doesn't force you to put a default right or doesn't force you to like cover all
the use cases.
Nested switch statement is possible so you can put switch within switch also.
So the same example the above which I use.
So here the switch I am using that.
Let's say I put Monday case Monday it will become true output value.
I have assigned it to the one.
Now I put again switch switch.
Now on this output value it has case one.
So output value is one right.
Yes.
Match output value.
It will print this one.
So it will print output value this one.
So it will break.
It will go out of this switch, then it will do break.
It will go out of this switch and then it will execute the statement.
Rest of the code output value.
What is the output value?
I have initialized it here so it would be one.
You got it.
Uh nested switch statement is possible.
Very simple switch within switch you can put.
What is the supported data type.
Very very important.
And sometimes it's an interview question also.
So now one thing you should note is that whatever the examples I have taken.
So these are the only supported database for primitive data types.
We can have integer.
These are the primitive integer short byte character right.
You can also have like see like this.
Also write wrapper types of the above primitive type is also allowed, so for int it would be integer.
And character right.
So for here for this one is enum.
Enum is also allowed.
String is also allowed right.
So for for it so total ten data types are allowed.
Okay.
So you know that string is also a kind of constant right.
Why string is a constant.
Can you tell me like we if we remember we have discussed in that right string pool and all.
You remember this right?
It is immutable.
Enum is already a constant.
I told you in the enum when we discussed, right?
So we know that it's a constant integer short byte character.
All this for primitive data types we can use here in the switch expression here.
So here in the cases anything has to be like constant or literals Literal right literal like c a or
constant one, two, three, or provide a final and use it.
And in the switch, whatever the expression you are going to use, it should be of this out of this
ten data types only, nothing else, no float double nothing.
Right.
Because it generally do comparison equals equals right.
So that's why it generally supports this only okay.
So these are the data types which switch statements support.
Now let us see that.
Another point which you have to remember is return is not possible within switch case.
So here if you see that let's say you have this scenario.
So what we were doing here is let's say in this example see this example.
Yeah this one.
So here we are Having a variable output value zero and we are updating it.
If any of the case condition is true.
But can we do this like this.
So output value can we initialize can switch statement can return certain out of this.
So switch I have taken an integer primitive data type.
It is allowed value okay.
Now it will match the case.
Case value is one.
So case one it become true.
Can I return one here so that this string output value can have this one.
No switch statement.
We can't do return.
So return is not allowed here like this.
So return is not possible within switch case.
And that's where there are two different ways using Case.
N this label and using yield statement.
Okay.
So generally you can say that this is available from Java 12.
If you have a JDK before Java 12 like you might not be able to test this scenarios.
Okay.
So let's understand this case and this arrow label how it helps us with the expression and returning
the value.
So now see this part I have integer value one.
I am using this value.
Code block start.
So value is one.
So it will look for the case.
Case one okay so this got matched.
So now here if you see that I am using case case whatever the value of that case.
So whatever the value of that case.
So arrow option I am using.
So what this arrow will do is it will return.
It will return whatever the data type you are expecting in an expression of this right hand side, the
left hand side of the switch.
Right.
Whatever you are expecting is it will return that one.
So I am expecting the string right.
So this is an expression.
This is switch expression right.
So here this switch is returning an string.
And here it will have this value.
So value is one.
So this case will get true.
And because of this arrow it will return this value right.
And this value data type should be similar to what it is.
Who is getting assigned with this.
Right.
So and one more thing you might have noticed is there is no break statement required.
Right.
Because this arrow will return it from here.
Right?
So that's why there is no break statement required.
So if you see that it is little bit clean also it's very much clean.
You you don't need break break because break using a break here inside a switch.
It's a very error prone.
Sometimes if you forget to put a break it might run the next code block.
So using this arrow it makes sure that you don't need to worry about break.
So it will simply return it from here right.
So what the output value after this it will print.
It will print one string.
Okay.
So few things you have to notice right here which I want to tell Because this is a switch expression
and we are it is returning the value which somebody is getting initialized with.
So it has to cover all possible use cases in switch statement.
What?
I told you that.
There is one right?
All use cases need not to be handled.
And I showed you like we.
I haven't used Friday Saturday, Sunday.
There is no default.
Right.
Because this is a switch statement.
Nobody.
This is not an expression.
No no nobody is getting are catching the value.
And.
All right.
But in the switch expression this variable is getting initialized by the switch.
So all possible use cases need to be handled for this expression.
So I have taken one example the same example Sample value is one switch value.
So.
Case one.
Case two.
Even though here value is one, you know that it will get match for sure, right?
But still I am getting a compilation error.
Why?
What compilation error says that switch expression does not cover all possible input use cases?
How you can fix it?
You have to put default right.
So let's say if this case doesn't match.
If this case doesn't match, what would be the default to be executed?
So all the possible use cases have to be handled.
If you are using enum, then all the enums you have to use or either put use a default.
Okay, so if you're using an expression, make sure that all possible use cases need to be handled right.
And there is no need of using the break.
So another thing is using this arrow.
We cannot have the block of statement.
Right?
Like what I mean to say is that you are doing case one arrow.
You can't have this block.
Now you can have you can't have multiple codes now here.
Right.
It will always return the next statement which you will write.
So how you will.
Because.
Because in the case one there might be a scenario where you have to write certain code logic, right.
And then return the value.
So how it is possible if this with an arrow it is not possible to write a block.
It is with the help of the yield.
The second part yield statement.
So whenever you wanted to have a block and you wanted to return, use a yield.
So here in this case I am putting a string output.
Well this value is getting assigned with switch statement.
Switch value.
It is one, right?
So first thing I have covered all the use cases.
Case one.
Case two.
Case three might be or default right.
So I have covered all the use cases and nothing.
Match default will take care of it.
So case one.
Now I am having an arrow.
It will return it right.
But I have used a block.
Now.
Since I am using a block, I have to return.
I have to use the yield now.
Because now you can write some ten code logic here.
But whatever you want it to return, you can use return it through yield.
So whenever you are using a block in an expression, in an expression, and if you wanted to return,
you have to use yield.
So in the case two I am also using a block.
So I am returning it using yield.
And I put can put a logic here in the default I am not using a block, so I am directly returning from
here.
Only one line, right?
So it will return it from here itself.
Got it.
So that is the way of returning the value from the switch case.
Okay.
So here now we have covered, uh, this decision making statement.
That's the only you can say that little bit uh, more detail.
The next part is very, very simple.
Right here.
Next we have is iterative statement.
So first iterative statement is the for loop.
So in the for loop this is how we have three part.
First initialize the variable.
Second is conditional check.
Third is increment or decrement the variable.
Okay.
So now let's see how it works.
So this is just a class.
This is just a method.
And this is a for loop I have used.
So what is the in the for loop?
This is the keyword for block start.
So what is the first initialization of a variable.
So I have initialized the variable integer value equals to one semicolon right.
Not comma semicolon okay.
Value is assigned.
What is the second part?
Condition check value is less than equal to ten.
True.
If it is true, what will happen?
It will execute the statement right value is equals to one.
One is less than or equals to ten.
True.
So what it will do is it will print the value System.out.println.
Value one.
Print it.
Now it will go and check increment third part increment or decrement of variable.
So I am incrementing well plus plus.
So now.
Well, you become two.
Now it will check the condition again.
Hey, two is less than equals to ten.
True.
If it is true again.
System.out.println.
Well two.
Then again it will check incremented it become three it check the condition again before implementing
the code.
Three is less than equals to ten.
Yes.
So 3456789.
Now it will go to 1010 less than equals to ten.
True it will print ten.
It will increment plus plus 1111 less than or equals to ten.
No it become false.
So this is how the for loop works.
So you can also have multiple for loops nested for loops right.
So this is the two for loops I have used in.
So I have used outer loop.
So this is outer loop.
This is the inner loop.
I have used.
You can put another for loop inside this one.
So for each value of an outer loop, inner loop will get executed completely.
So here I have initialized it x equals to one x equals to one one less than equals to three one less
than equals to three.
True it is true.
Then this will get executed.
Now here, if you see that this whole for loop will get executed y equals to one and y less than equals
to three.
Right.
So this will get executed y.
So y so for x equals to one y1 y2 y3 will get executed.
This for loop will run after it run three times it goes up x plus plus it become two two less than equals
to three.
Yes.
So it will go inside, and then this for loop will get executed again because we are initializing again.
So for x equals to two again y equals to 123 will happen.
Then again x plus plus x equals to three.
Again Y123.
So you got it right for each value of x.
The inner loop will get run every time okay.
So generally this two time for loop is very useful in the 2D matrix.
Scenario 123456789.
So x axis the outer loop.
You can use an x axis right.
And inner loop is y axis.
So for each.
So for each x axis you have to run the y.
So outer one can be your x axis.
Inner one can be your y axis.
So it will print like this.
Okay.
So this is your for loop.
The next one is your while loop.
So while loop is also very very similar it's just a different way of representing the first we initialize
the variable.
Then we check the condition.
And inside this block itself we will increment decremented.
So let's take understand this with an example.
So I have taken initialize the variable at top.
First initialize the variable.
Now I'm checking value less than equals to five.
Yes one less than equal to five.
True.
The code will get executed within this block.
Value plus plus right.
So first it printed one system dot dot print ln one value become plus plus.
So value become two two less than or equals to five.
True it print again.
Then plus plus 345.
So for five it will print again.
And five plus plus six six.
Less than equals to five.
No, it will go out of this block.
Okay.
Then another is do while loop, so do while loop is required when you want to run a loop at least one
time.
So one time loop will run no matter what.
So it is like initialize the variable.
This is the keyword do and then we have a while.
Remember this semicolon at the end.
So let's understand with an example.
Let's say I have initialized the well equals to one.
So do while loop is.
So first do is the keyword block is started.
So now here this code will get executed at least once.
So system dot dot dot println val is one printed val plus plus become two.
So now it will check the condition two less than or equals to five.
If it is true then the block will get executed.
Yes, two is less than or equal to five plus plus become three.
Three less than or equal to five.
Four less than or equals to five.
Plus plus five.
Five.
Less than equals to five.
Yes.
Right then.
Five plus plus six.
Six.
Less than or equal to five.
False.
It will go out.
So difference between do while loop and while loop is that in the while loop first we compare.
If that is true then only we will run.
But in the do while loop, at least one time loop will run, and because the condition check is after
that.
Okay, then there is one more call is for each loop.
So this is generally to iterate over array or collections array or collections.
So next topic we're gonna start with the collections only.
So I'll cover like how to iterate.
And also generate is very simple.
So we will understand with array which we have already covered.
So now let's say I have created this array and I have created an array 12345.
So how I can iterate over it.
So this is known as foreach loop.
So here I have created a for loop.
Right now this is for each.
Don't get mixed it up with normal for loop right.
It's for each.
So variable array I have put array I have put.
So for each value for each value of this array it will this value will get assigned.
So first I am initializing this val with one system dot println val is one.
Then again this loop will get executed till this array or collection is not empty.
It will run like this.
Then it goes to the second R its pointer.
So what is the value two.
So two is getting assigned to.
Well it gets printed then three, then four, then five.
Then once the array is fully iterated empty or the collection we have fully iterated, we have reached
to the end.
Then for loop will become false and it goes out right.
So in the.
For each loop it is used to iterate array or collections, and it will iterate over the elements of
an array or collections.
And it goes like this.
And iterate till the end is reached okay.
The last one is the branching statement in control flow statement, where we have two part break and
continue.
So this is mostly used with the loop.
So whenever we are doing a loop.
This branching statement can be used.
So here if you see that I am taking a very simple example.
First of break statement.
So I have taken a for loop for I have initializes the variable variable equals to one.
The second part is condition check one is less than equals to ten.
True.
So as per the code it should go inside this code block.
So val equals to equals to three.
No val is currently one.
So this block will not get executed.
System.out.println one.
Get executed.
So now it will get incremented and condition will check again two is less than or equals to ten.
Yes.
Now the code will get executed.
I have a check.
If two equals to equals to three.
No I have printed two now plus plus three.
Three is less than or equals to ten.
Yes.
Now it will go inside.
Three is equals to equals to three.
This if condition become true.
Now what I am doing break.
So now when I do a break it will go out of this for loop.
The immediate for loop.
What I mean to say the immediate for loop.
For example I have used two for loop and I have used the break.
So here if you see that it will get out of this immediate for loop.
So immediate for loop is this one.
So it will go out of this for loop.
But still it is inside this for loop right.
It is still inside this for loop.
Right.
So this for loop will still be running only it will break this for loop.
Okay.
So that's what the usage of break.
So what break will do is it will break your loop.
So whenever it will find out a break inside a for loop.
What it will do is it will break whatever the rest of the condition it might have to run.
Otherwise, if break is not there, what it will do, it will.
It will print 123456789 ten.
So after but at value when it was three.
If it is true, it we have done the break.
So it only print one, two and rest of the code.
It breaks, it goes out.
Right.
So that is one of the break statement and another is continue.
So continue does the opposite kind of thing generally.
So here if you see that what continue will do, it will not break the for loop.
It will not break the for loop, it will not exit.
But what it will do is it will skip that value the further iteration of that value.
For example, value equals to one value less than equals to ten value plus plus.
So in general it has to print 123456789 ten.
Right.
But I have put one code here.
If value equals to equals to three, continue.
So for the one it printed because one is equals to equals to three.
No.
So it printed plus plus two.
Two less than equals to ten.
True.
But this code will not be true.
So it just printed this.
So two will get printed two plus.
Plus what it will become three.
Three less than equals to ten.
True.
Then this if condition three equals to equals to three.
True.
Now it will do continue.
So what it what continue will do is it will go and say that.
Hey now incremented further don't proceed the further statement.
So for three the next of the code block, whatever it has it will not get executed.
It will just skip it and do plus plus.
So it will become four for less than equals to ten.
Yes four equals to equals to three.
Now it will print four.
So here if you see that three got skipped.
So the output 12456789 ten.
So what continued will do is continue will skip that particular value and just do increment plus plus
right.
But it will not break the for loop.
What break will do is it will just go out of the for loop itself.
Okay.
So these are very simple part like I would say that just try it out once right.
But uh this is certain new part switch expression.
So just uh, have uh, hands on practice on this once.
But this is generally what our control flow statements are, right?
And those who are from C++ background might be they find it very easy because C++ also has mostly the
same logic.
Seems okay guys.
Okay guys.
Any doubt, any question?
Please feel free to ping me on the comment and let's discuss.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
