# Visitor Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern)

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do this visitor pattern into the LD right.
So I'm making it tick Mark.
So let's start without wasting any time.
And before we go through this visitor UML and solution I, what I want you to understand is what is
the problem which visitor pattern solves actually.
So can you look at this class and tell me like what is the problem you see with this class.
Very simple class right?
So in my opinion, I can see that there are two issues with this class.
One of the issue is that let's say this is a simple basic hotel room class.
Right.
And what I have added is operations.
Okay.
One of the operation is get room price.
Another operation is initiate room maintenance.
Third operation is reserve room.
Similarly, more operations can overcome be added right over the time more operations can be added to
it.
So by looking at this class, one thing I know that okay, today let's say with this three operations,
I have tested my class fully, fully tested.
But in future, if any new operation is added, let's say operation X is added.
If any new operation is added, then I might have to test it this class again if something not should
not be broken, right.
So this class has to be tested again every time a new operation has been added to it, right?
So that is one of the issue.
What is the second issue, which I see is that this class can grow.
If you don't know how many operations can be added, let's say slowly, today is only three operations.
Maybe after six months this class may host around 50 methods.
Or you can say that 50 operations.
So this class can grow huge right?
So that is the problem which actually visitor pattern solves.
Right.
And if you see the visitor pattern definition itself, what it says that this pattern allow you to add
new operation, allow you to add new operation to existing class without changing their structure.
Means to let's say that if you have created the hotel class today and you can add new operations like
in future, if like no matter 50 or 100, whatever the operations you are adding, keep on adding it.
You don't have to touch this hotel class hotel hotel room class, right?
So that's the functionality it provide.
It allow you to add new operation to existing class without changing their structure.
It is achieved this by separating the.
I would say that not algorithm.
It would say that separating the operation from the object on which it operates.
So what it does is it takes all this operation.
And separate it out from the class.
How it does, how it separate out this operation, I'll tell you, but it's separate out this operation
from the class, and you can keep on adding on those operation.
And you don't have to touch the class itself.
Okay.
So it is a behavioral design pattern.
And you know now what it does it allow you to add new operation to an existing class without you have
to change it.
Right.
And it separate out the operation actually from the class.
And this is the problem it solves.
So By the end, you will get to know about double dispatch.
Actually, it uses double dispatch to separate out the operation from the class.
When I was saying that.
Okay, from this class, we will take out this all this operation we will take out from this class how
it is through the help of double dispatch.
So don't worry about double dispatch.
Now, once we will understand with the example, you will easily get to know that.
Okay, this is what double dispatch is okay.
So we will come to this definition again at least once we have understand with an example okay.
So this is its UML diagram visitor design pattern UML diagram.
So here.
Where you don't try to actually uh just give it a quick glance.
Then we will see with an example.
Right.
This UML become more and more clear.
But at least have this, uh, terms in your mind that, okay, we have to create one interface II ten.
For interface we have to create one element interface.
Then we can have so many concrete elements to it, so many concrete elements to it.
Similarly, we have to create one interface visitor.
We can have so many visitor concrete classes of it.
Right.
So two things.
It has element and visitor.
Okay.
So just have these two things when we will see an example.
And then we will come back to this UML.
You will actually understood this UML very very properly.
Okay.
So now I am taking an example of let's say hotel booking system.
Let's say a very simple room room chart.
We will see.
So let's see an example that I am creating first this room element interface.
Right.
So this is your the I element which I created right this part.
So I am creating this I element.
Okay.
So I created an interface room element.
And I have added one method except right.
So here this except is what it is expecting visitor okay.
So we'll see that part.
So here you need to first understand what is element.
We are what to whom we are to which object we are calling an element.
So here you remember that starting I told you about hotel room.
Right.
So that can be considered as an element.
So any object on which you have to add operation.
Right.
And you have to take out the operation out of this object.
That object, we have to mark it as an element like so from this element we will take out the operations,
take out the operations from this element.
Okay.
So from the above example from the hotel room, we have to take out all the operations out of that class.
Right.
So that's why I created that room as an element.
So it's an interface and it is accepting one method.
It has one method with the name accept.
We will see that.
So now I created this interface right.
There can be multiple type of rooms single room double room deluxe room.
Right.
So each are you can say that a child of room element.
So they are is is the relationship right.
And they implements it.
They implements it.
Single room implements.
Room element.
Double room implements room element.
Deluxe room implements room element.
In future, maybe we can have another child class.
Let's say a presidential suit implements room elements.
So there are different type of rooms in a hotel.
Okay, so since it's an interface, each child class has to implement this method except method.
Okay.
So currently we are not seeing this except method.
We will see like okay what this method does.
But one thing first point is clear that to which object you have to create an element, the object from
which you have to take out the operations.
Right.
So from rooms there can be multiple methods we have seen.
Right or multiple operations.
I have to take out this operations out of this room.
So that's why I created this room as an element.
And there can be multiple type of room single room, deluxe room, double room.
We can add those.
It can grow in future.
Also.
Now you can ask me, hey where are the operations and where are those how we are handling this now?
Room reserve room, room price, how we are adding it.
It has just one method.
Except now here.
If you see that the second part comes is in our UML is visitor.
Right.
So visitor is something which host all the operations.
So now here if you see that I created the room visitor right in this room.
So this is an interface.
Now all the different type of operations that can be done on an object.
So my object is room.
So all the different type of operations that can be done on a room We can have concrete classes for
it.
So let's say for room visitor, I can have room pricing.
Visitor.
Another is room maintenance.
Visitor.
You can add more.
What are the different operation?
Reserve room.
Visitor.
Right.
So you can have.
For each operation you can create visitor.
You can create visitor.
Now here.
If you see that in the interface what method we have is visit.
Right.
And if you see that we have one method for each of this concrete element for each of this concrete element
okay.
So here if you see that I have one visit method which accepts single room I have visit method which
accept.
Double room I have visit method which accept.
Deluxe room right.
Which accept this object.
Now I should be able to perform multiple operations, right?
So first operation I have created a concrete visitor class room pricing visitor.
So here if you see that I have implemented this method, visit method for a single room.
I have added my logic to compute the price.
So it is pricing visitor.
Right.
So pricing related logic I have put into this visit method.
Then for double room.
Double room has its own pricing logic.
So it is setting its own price price computation logic of double room.
So in the single room price computation of single room.
Third method is for deluxe room, right.
So here I can have operation for pricing for this room pricing computation computational logic of deluxe
room so we can have that right second operation, which we wanted like say on this room is maintenance,
right?
So for each method now if you see its implementation, they are doing kind of a maintenance work.
So for the single room it is performing maintenance of single room might be some other logic.
For double room method it is performing maintenance of double room.
For deluxe room it is performing maintenance of deluxe room.
Similarly third operation reserve room.
So we can have all these three methods and they perform their own operation on the particular objects.
So now if you see that what we have done is single room might have multiple methods, deluxe room might
have multiple methods like reserve room, price maintenance and more.
Now here, if you see that those methods are not present here, Those methods are gone there.
Visitor.
So we have created a for each operation we have created a visitor.
Right.
So maybe in future we have any new operations coming in, we can just add a new visitor.
Right.
And for all this elements we will support this methods.
Right.
For all this element we will support this.
Let's say in future we will add a new method called presidential suit new element presidential suit.
So we have to add it here public void visit presidential uh presidential suit and its object.
Right.
And we have to provide its pricing, its pricing here.
We have to provide its implementation maintenance.
We have to provide it.
Implementation wizard It presidential suit and provide its implementation for reserve.
We have to provide.
Implement this method and provide that implementation right now here.
If you see that how it is working is.
So now now look at this method again except method which is present into the element.
So here it accept a visitor like what visitor you want to pass if you are passing a room pricing visitor.
And here if you see that this single room implementing this accept right.
So here let's say visitor I passed I want to calculate the price.
Right.
So from the uh runtime the client can pass the visitor of this one, this operation visitor room pricing
visitor.
Then it will cause its visit method.
It will call this visit method.
That right?
Which one from?
Single room.
Right.
I am passing single room.
Object this so it will call this method.
Let's say for double room you want to invoke the maintenance or method.
How you will, uh, initiate the maintenance uh, method.
So here, if you see that in the room visitor, I can pass an object of this visitor room maintenance
visitor and room maintenance.
Visitor will call the method visit now.
Which method to invoke this double room object.
So it will call this double room maintenance method.
Right.
So both the problems are solved with this right.
So first problem is that let's say you have tested this class.
You have tested this class.
You have tested this class room pricing visitor.
All the operations are tested properly.
Right now, let's say you are adding new operation.
You are adding new operation.
Right?
A reserve room.
Do you have to touch this room?
Maintenance visitor method?
No.
Do you have to touch this?
Pricing?
Visitor methods?
No.
Okay.
So once you have tested any new operations added, you won't have to touch it.
Second thing is, will a one particular class will grow?
No.
So here, if you see that this all.
So any new operation will come.
It will grow horizontally not vertically.
One class will not grow to a massive.
It will grow like a horizontally.
For each operation, we will create one visitor.
Right.
And it can grow horizontally.
Right.
And they support a method for each of this elements.
Now here you can ask me.
Right?
Hey.
how the double dispatch comes into the picture here.
Okay, so till now, you understand here, right?
What we are doing.
So here, now, let's say that we have to call whatever this thing.
Let's say this is the method.
Now I have created an object of single room, double room and deluxe room.
So this is an interface room element, but it has a single room object.
Double room object, deluxe room object.
So I am creating three objects here.
Now I am performing an operation on the object.
Right.
So first for the single room for this object I am calling the accept method, but I want it to call
a which method pricing method.
So I am which visitor I am passing it.
Room pricing.
Visitor method object.
Right.
So when it call the accept single room object dot accept.
So single room object is a room element.
That's an interface.
But the object it has is new single room.
So it will accept.
It will call invoke.
It will call invoke of single room.
This accept will get invoked.
This will get invoked okay.
Now it invoked.
And in the argument what object we have passed we have passed pricing visitor object this one.
So again this is an interface.
But what object it holds.
Room pricing.
Visitor.
So now this room pricing visitor.
Here I am calling the visit method.
So in the room pricing visitor it is calling the visit method.
Which visit method it has to call this visitor or sorry not this one this this this object single room
object.
Right Which we are invoking single room object.
So it will actually invoke single room.
This method.
Right now let's say I want to invoke the double room.
For the double room I want to invoke the maintenance.
So I have a double room object.
This is the double room object right?
For the double room object I can call accept method.
Now I want to call the maintenance.
So maintenance visitor.
So because visitor is an operation right.
So maintenance visitor operation room maintenance visitor I am passing.
So first it will call the accept method room element.
So it's an interface.
So this is a reference right.
So it calls the accept method of what double room double room.
So for the double room it will call the accept method.
Now Now.
What is the visitor?
We are passing here.
Visitor.
We are passing is maintenance visitor object the new room.
Maintenance visitor.
So what object?
It will call room maintenance visitor dot visit.
So here.
Room maintenance visit dot visit.
Now which visit?
It will call this.
What is this one?
We are passing double room here.
This is the object right.
So double room object we are passing.
This is the double room object which we are passing.
So it will call this double room right.
So here I think it's pretty much should be clear by now.
Right.
What visitor is trying to do.
What.
So it takes out of the operation from the class.
Earlier I used to have create room class.
And inside this room class, I would have created, uh, reserve room, calculate price, uh, do maintenance,
all this thing.
But now I have taken this method out.
And for each operation, I have created a visitor.
Right.
And as soon as in future, more methods or more operation comes, I can add.
Keep on adding the visitor.
Right.
And based on this, you already know that how to invoke a particular method.
So that's actually why we are invoking.
Right.
We did double dispatch.
So before understanding the double dispatch you need to understand what is single dispatch.
So so see both you already know we have done we what.
We have both we have done here.
Single dispatch double dispatch here.
But just to clarify separately that okay, this is the single dispatch.
So here if you see that we have a room we have single room.
Double room.
Deluxe room.
Right.
And it also has method, except it also has method.
Except it also has method except.
Okay, all three has method except this is an interface.
This is also has except, but it's an abstract.
Now when you are creating an object like this room.
OBJ equals to new deluxe room and you are calling obj dot.
Except you know right.
It's a basic polymorphism right.
So with this reference interface reference you are calling an object or calling a method.
But which method it will invoke whether single room double room or deluxe room.
What.
So it will check okay.
This reference holds an object of what?
Deluxe room.
So it will call this object.
This is known as single dispatch.
Single dispatch means the method which has to be invoked.
It's dependent upon one object, right?
So this method except which method except method has to be invoked.
It depend upon one object.
This.
What object reference I hold.
Double dispatch means the method which has to be invoked.
It depend upon two objects, right?
One is the caller and another is argument.
One is caller and another is argument that is known as double dispatch.
So here if you see that we are doing double dispatch here.
So I'll tell you this part where we are doing a double dispatching.
So just a little bit clear me up so that it would be.
Yeah.
So let's see that double dispatch here.
So you can tell the first dispatch right.
So now I am calling this method.
Just see this method.
Right.
I am calling single room object dot accept.
So single room object.
This is a room element interface reference.
This is just a reference.
Now it is calling accept room element.
This is the room element.
We are trying to invoke an accept method.
And this is a reference which accept method.
It will call whether single room, whether double room or deluxe room it.
We will see that it's a reference of single room.
So which it will invoke this first.
So this what happen is single dispatch happen.
This is single dispatch happen.
Now here I am passing in the argument.
Another reference, another reference room pricing visitor.
So here again this is an room visitor is an interface room visitor.
Here is an interface.
And I am passing this interface here reference.
So I am passing this reference here I am passing this reference here.
But this reference holds an object of what this reference object reference points to which object room
pricing visitor.
So now here, if you see that when this accept method got invoked invoked using single dispatch, this
visitor was room pricing visitor.
So now it is calling dot visit.
Now the second dispatch happened.
Right.
So here, if you see that this is the actually the double dispatch is happening at this point of time.
So this is the reference is happening.
I am passing the reference here.
Right.
Room pricing.
Visitor.
Right.
But what element.
Room visitor.
The interface now interface I am calling dot visit.
So there are visit uh so many visit.
Visit one.
Visit two.
Visit three into this visitor.
Then we have visitor in visitor here also in maintenance visitor also.
So which visitor I am talking about.
So it does a first dispatch here.
First dispatch is single dispatch.
It does is, This is.
This room visitor is pointing to what?
So internally it will calculate.
Okay this it is trying a this reference is pointing to this room.
Visitor room pricing.
Visitor.
Okay.
So it knows that okay it has to call the visit method of this room pricing.
Visitor first.
First dispatch happened.
Now double dispatch okay.
This class also has so many visit visit visit now which visit to call you are calling visit but which
visit now this is the second parameter.
This is the second parameter.
So now it is telling that hey this object.
So what is the object.
It is passing here single room object.
Single room object.
Again pointing to the new single room.
So it will call new this single room.
So now here, if you see that the method which has to be invoked is now dependent on two object.
First the caller and the second the argument with the caller.
You get to know that okay, this is the class in which this widget method is exists, because there
might be different classes in which the widget method is there.
Okay.
So with the first caller you got to know that okay.
This is the class through which in which the widget method exists.
But if there are more than widget method which widget this this reference which hold this reference.
So this is the single room object reference right.
So this one.
So the method is decided based upon the caller and the argument.
So visitor pattern uses double dispatch functionality T to take out of the operation from the object
or element.
I hope this is.
Should be pretty much clear.
Like what is the problem?
What is definition actually allow you to add new operation without changing the existing class how it
is?
What is double dispatch?
Double dispatch mean method which need to be invoked decided by the caller object and the object passed
in the argument.
So I think this I think should be clear with an example itself.
So at what time double dispatch is happening.
This.
This is actually we are doing double dispatch.
First.
This is the caller.
First it will determine which class and if that class has so many visit a particular visit method has
to invoke, then this argument will help which particular method.
Okay.
And single dispatch.
I have already told you that single dispatch is nothing but a normal polymorphism with a simple examples,
right?
So this is the visitor pattern here.
And before going, if you stay till here, then I will tell you like many people get confused with strategy
design pattern.
Because in strategy pattern let's say if you have room you can have let's say single room.
Double room, deluxe room.
And then you can have let's say room strategy.
What they will do is they will do room strategy and they will try to put it like this.
Hey, I can have a single room pricing strategy.
I can have single room maintenance strategy like this I have deluxe room pricing strategy, deluxe room
maintenance strategy, and now whichever strategy I have to, let's say I want to use pricing, single
room pricing.
I can dynamically runtime pass this strategy and I can use it.
No.
Yes, you can do that.
But this is wrong.
See these are all operations.
Strategy pattern is mostly for separating out the algorithm.
Right.
That's why I have cut it at above.
It's not algorithm it's operation.
So strategy pattern separates out the algorithm.
Algorithm is independent of this elements like single room double room.
So algorithm can be like let's say if it is like this uh price calculation algo something, something
like algo maintenance algo one.
maintenance algo to some algorithms which is independent of this.
Now they can decide which algorithm you want to use.
I want to use for maintenance.
I want to use algo maintenance.
One double say that double rooms say that I want to use algo uh.
Maintenance algo two.
So you decide there is a difference between algorithm and operation.
You can't have a strategy for each operation.
Like this strategy is for separating out the algorithm which are independent of this object.
Single room and.
All right.
But here visitor pattern.
We are talking about operations right specifically for each of this element.
Single room.
It's specific operation.
So this is an operation.
And here we have a implementation of that.
Right.
But algorithm you.
I think it should be clear like you got it right.
Algorithm is no nowhere related to this.
I have an algorithm.
Now the element can decide okay I want to use this algorithm.
Maybe it's possible that single room, double room, deluxe room.
All three will use the same algorithm for computation of the pricing.
Right?
It's possible.
So there is a difference in strategy.
And visitor strategy is mostly related with separating out the algorithm.
Visitor is with the problem.
You already got to know what it tries to do is separating out the operations.
Okay guys, I tried to explain with an example and uh, the problem.
I hope it should be pretty clear.
And you should be have a, well, differentiation between visitor and strategy, right?
Don't mix it up.
And if you have any doubt, let me know in the comment section.
Uh, we can discuss more.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
