Guys welcome back to the channel.
And today in microservice topic we are going to cover Load Balancer.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So we all know what load balancer is.
Generally it helps in distributing the traffic to multiple instances of a server.
Right.
Which helps in preventing single server from being overloaded with huge traffic.
This is very, very basic definition of load balancer, which we all know, but things got more interesting
when we go into its type.
So generally it's of two type server side load balancer and client side load balancer.
So in server side load balancer what generally happen is it has centralized load balancer right.
So here if you see this is your client let's say this is our Spring Boot app.
This is our Spring Boot app which we have written.
Now we are calling a dedicated you can say that a server which do the role of load balancing.
So it has a centralized load balancer.
Okay.
So our client do not contain any logic of load balancing.
Okay.
So it calls a dedicated load balancer server which does and forward the request to one of the service
requested service.
But in the client side load balancer what generally happens is load balancing capability present inside
the client.
The caller itself okay.
So here if you see this is what we are doing today and this is what we have done in the service discovery
if you remember.
So this is our spring boot application which we have developed let's say.
So what it does is it first invokes service discovery.
Let's say it says that hey give me all the instances of service a now service discovery.
Return the list of all the possible instances available for the service.
A now this client holds the logic of the load balancing.
Either it could be a library or either it written its own logic, but client has the logic.
Client does the load balancing and pass the request to one of the server.
Okay, so that's the difference between server side load balancing and client side load balancing.
And this is what we are going to cover.
Client side load balancer.
Server side load balancer when we cover API gateway nginx.
Right.
So that time we can cover it okay.
So client side load balancer is something which we are going to see.
So the prerequisite is the service discovery.
Because if you remember in the service discovery when we use fake client right in the client it automatically
it automatically internally uses load balancer in case of service discovery.
Okay.
So we have to know the service discovery before we start with the load balancer.
So that's a prerequisite.
You can check in the playlist.
So let's start with the client side load balancing with Rest template.
Because if we understand the Rest template then for either Rest client, faint client web client whatever
you are going to do, the load balancing logic would be same.
It not going to differ.
So in service discovery topic previous video, we have seen that after we have set the service discovery
the rest template, we fetch the list of instances using discovery client object.
We have already seen that right.
And then client is manually choosing the instances from the list and invoking the endpoint.
See if you can recall from the previous video service discovery one.
So I am showing you an example of rest template, not pink line.
Okay, so in the rest template, if you remember, we were first creating the object of Rest template
inside a configuration which we have auto wired it.
Okay.
Now here if you see we are using an object of discovery client.
With discovery client we are fetching the instances of this service product service from Eureka server.
Hey Eureka server, give me all the instances of this product service.
Once you get it.
And here if you see this is we were choosing like you can say that this is a very bad, uh, load balancing
algorithm.
We were always picking get zero.
But this is just an example that, hey, after you get all the instances, we have to have a load balancing
logic and we have to pick one instance and call it Okay.
Use that host and port number.
Okay.
So if you can recall this one here, we haven't used any load balancing capability.
Now okay.
So here we are fetching it.
We are writing our capability.
And we are then invoking a particular server.
So we can use Spring Cloud Load Balancer which is spring cloud load balancer is your client side load
balancer.
Okay.
So spring cloud load balancer.
There are more client side load balancer like Netflix Reborn which is I think deprecated.
Now it's deprecated.
So spring cloud load balancer is something which is frequently used.
And Istio uh service mesh that is also very frequently used okay.
So we can use any of the client side load balancer which we want.
So now here, if you see if we have to use the Spring Cloud load balancer into the above this Rest template,
what we can do the first thing first we have to add an dependency of the load balancer spring cloud
load balancer dependency.
We have to add in our Pom okay.
Now the second thing is.
We have to annotate where we are creating an object of Rest template.
We have to annotate with at the load balancer.
Why?
Because this annotation tells the framework that hey, intercept the request, intercept the request
and call service discovery.
Get an instance and apply load balancing algorithm.
So there is something called load balancer interceptor load balancer interceptor.
So this class will get invoked.
Okay.
So this is the purpose of this annotation.
It tells the framework that add this interceptor.
Okay.
We will see that.
So this is one thing is we have to annotate our Rest template with this annotation.
Another difference you will see that earlier we were using discovery Discovery client.
Right now you don't need discovery client itself because this interceptor internally will call service
discovery fetch and instances do load balancing and call one server.
Okay.
So you don't manually need to do that.
All you have to do that is just provide the name of the service which you have to invoke.
Okay.
So I have written into the Application.properties the HTTP product hyphen service.
Now I am not using, let's say one 92.80 .60.3.
Hey, call 8082.
I am not using the hard coded host and port number.
Right.
I have just invoked that hey product hyphen service.
This is the name of the service.
I have given into the application like here for this order application I have given the name order.
I order hyphen service.
Right.
Similarly for the product service I have given that name.
So I'm using that name which service you are going to invoke.
Okay so the same here.
This is the URL.
Okay.
So this HTTP colon product hyphen service.
And this is the URI relative path which we have to invoke.
Now this will get resolved by our load balancer.
Okay.
So now here if you see lot of things become simpler for us okay.
We just have added the dependency and just tell through this annotation that Intercept.
Intercept the request and use load balancer interceptor.
Now here we don't have to do the calling of the service directory service discovery.
We don't have to put an algorithm for choosing one of the particular service.
All internally got handled.
But the question should comes to you now.
How what algorithm how we can change it that we are gonna see it.
Okay.
So if you face any doubt with the rest template like hey, you are not able to understand this.
So I would say that like please go through this rest template first.
Right.
And I even I have shown the in-depth of this Rest template framework, how the control flows whenever
we do this one right.
Get for object in the rest template.
What exactly happened?
I have already explained in depth.
So the thing is, once you put this at the rate load balance annotation.
So in this framework, I am just assuming that you have already seen the Rest template video and you
know this how internally it works.
So in the Rest template flow, when when we used to call the execute method, that's where the interception
works.
And that's where first this will get invoked.
Load balancer interceptor dot Java.
At this point of time.
Okay.
So before execution of this first this interceptor.
Now get invoked.
Now here if you see if you debug this interceptor code, you will see this piece of code where it try
to dose this two thing.
So first it does load balancer client factory get instance for this service ID.
What it does it will pick the load balancing algorithm for you.
It will pick the load balancing algorithm like a round robin Urban or random whatever.
So it will pick one load balancing algorithm for you first.
Okay.
After that it calls load balancer dot choose request.
So internally it calls service discovery.
Pick one instance based on the above load balancing algorithm.
So internally it calls service discovery.
Get a list of instance.
And whatever the load balancer algorithm you have got using that it will pick one instance of it.
Okay.
So all this code logic is present inside this interceptor.
Okay.
So there are different types of algorithms present into load balancing like I have already covered into
this playlist.
If you go into the playlist you will see I think around 18th video.
Like we have discussed a lot of algorithm, round robin, least connection, IP hash, At least response
time.
Random.
So I'm not going to cover what exactly the algorithm does that is already present into the playlist.
But today our main purpose is to understand that how framework does it.
Okay, so if you see this line again where it picks the load balancing algorithm, this is very, very
important.
We have to understand it better because remember when you are about to code it, I am pretty much sure
you will face lot of challenge because of this service ID because of the service ID so understand this
service ID concept properly.
This gonna help you when you write it right.
This is I'm from based on my experience.
I'm telling you lot of engineers get stuck this how it's working.
Okay.
So we will look at this a little bit better where this line Choosing the load balancer for us, it will
choosing the load balancer right for us.
So one thing question comes to our mind is what is the service ID getting passed.
Okay.
And what is its purpose.
Why and what its purpose.
So one thing is this service ID is nothing but a client ID, or you can say that client name.
So here in this case like a product hyphen service is also known as service ID let's say order hyphen
service.
This is my application name right at you can say that Eureka server.
We have used this application names.
So this are known as service ID okay.
So each why we are passing this client name or service ID to this load balancer.
Remember that each load balancer algorithm is attached to a service ID.
So now let's say that this is your application.
Just understand that this is your application.
Now you have a dependency on product.
You have a dependency on sales.
You have a dependency on some x, y, z application.
Okay.
So I have given its name product hyphen service.
I have given it a name sales hyphen service.
Similarly x y z hyphen service some something something.
So these are the application name.
Remember that load balancing algorithm is for attached to a specific service.
So for this service I am using round robin.
For this service I am attaching it with random.
For this service I am attaching it with let's say weighted algorithm.
So whatever the algorithm of a load balancer is attached to a particular service.
Always.
Okay.
So this gonna help us.
Very.
This is the main concept actually.
We will see that when we will override it.
Right.
This is where the challenge comes that hey how why this product service is important.
It is important because whatever the algorithm we are picking load balancing algorithm, it's attached
to one of the service.
It's not like I choose a round robin.
Now it's round robin is for product service also sales service also this also no it's always get attached
to one of the service okay so we will see that more.
But at this point of time only this thing keep in at the back of your mind that yes, whatever the load
balancing algorithm we are picking, it is attached to one of the service.
Okay.
So each load balancing algorithm is attached to a service ID.
Service ID is nothing but a client name like Product Service.
By default, Spring Cloud Load Balancer picks round robin load balancer.
So this is the default load balancer algorithm.
We can change it for a specific service for all the service.
Also we will see that how.
But this is by default for all the service okay.
No matter how many service you add for all the service round robin get attached round robin for product
service, round robin for sales service, round robin for XYZ service okay, so for each service round
robin load balancer is the default algorithm is chosen.
So if we are not going with default algorithm, if you don't want to go with round robin Then we need
to define for which client or service ID which algorithm we need.
Again, it's just a different way of saying that each algorithm load balancing algorithm is attached
to a particular service ID.
So we have to tell okay you don't want to go with round robin.
What algorithm you want to choose.
But for which service?
We have to tell the both.
Spring Cloud Load balancer supports only two algorithm round robin and random.
Okay so here this is the class hierarchy.
If you see that this is one of the load balancer round robin load balancer.
And this is the another random load balancer.
We can if you need more or different you can.
Create a child class.
You write a custom load balancer and use it.
We will see that how we can do that.
Okay so but by default only two algorithms are present into the spring cloud load balancer round robin
and random.
If you want different algorithms like weighted least connection, then we need to write either custom
or we need to use different, uh, library, maybe Istio with sidecar.
It has wide variety of algorithms present inside its sidecar.
Okay.
So now your requirement is that, hey, we want to use random load balancer.
I don't want to use round robin.
We want to use random.
How we can override it.
So very very simple.
Okay.
This is same like, uh, the configuration I am just creating an object of Rest template.
And while creating a Rest template object I have annotated with at the load balance so that my load
balancer, uh, interceptor can catch it.
And here.
Exactly same like, uh, no difference Friends while invoking it in the application.properties no difference.
I have provided the base URL which is this.
Here I am using the service name.
Now the difference which comes in that first in your application, let's say this is my order application.
In the order service application we have to put load balancer client annotation okay.
In this load balancer client annotation we tell that hey for this service product hyphen service, this
is the configuration which we have to use okay.
So this is very very specific for the load balancer okay.
So now here if you see I have provided a load balancer product client config load balancer product line.
This is very very specific.
Just see it right again load balancer client.
This client is for name is product service.
So I am writing this config very very specific for this product service.
Very very specific for this product service.
Okay.
So I have written this configuration.
And now here if you see I am creating reactor load balancer.
So I am creating from this hierarchy.
You know that uh all this round robin random these are the hierarchy.
So it returns the object of this one reactor load balancer okay.
So I am returning now random load balancer I am returning now random load balancer.
But slowly understand it.
What exactly happened.
So first by first let's start it from here.
This config this load balancer product line config is different from this normal config class.
Here I have created this configuration class, right?
You already understand that when you start an application, when you start an application, what would
happen is this bean will get created at the time of startup, correct?
This is different.
This configuration is lazy.
This configuration is different.
Load balancer configuration is different.
The configuration again I'm saying the configuration which is associated with load balancer client is
different from the normal config class because normal config class like above where we are creating
an object of rest template, right?
Like this.
This get invokes at application startup only all the beans will get created.
But this load balancer client config right?
This load balancer config whatever you will define the config here for the load balancer invokes at
runtime two.
So whenever you are going to invoke this right http colon product hyphen service some relative path.
Whenever you are trying to invoke this endpoint product hyphen service.
At that point of time, this configuration will invoke also.
Okay, at that point of time it will decide what is the load balancing algorithm you are picking.
Why?
I will tell you the reason for it also when we will go for the global.
Okay, but remember this.
This is very important.
This config differs from the normal config because this configuration load balancer configuration invokes
at runtime two okay.
So that is first part.
The second part is now here.
If you see when I am creating a random load balancer, this random load balancer constructor takes two
parameter one is service instance list supplier, another is service ID.
Okay.
So now here this is the.
This will return me an object of service instance list supplier.
This one.
So what is the use of this service instance list supplier.
This object service instance list supplier is actually the one which helps to invoke the service discovery.
So using this object using this supplier object service instance list supplier using this object we
invoke the service discovery okay.
And for what what name what server we have to ask for instance is this one product hyphen service.
So that's what it gives us.
A lazy object means it's not called now okay.
Whenever we call it, whenever we required it, then only it's object will provide it to us.
So it give us an object lazily.
That's what generally it does.
So the first thing it does is it provides an object of the service instance list supplier.
Using this we will invoke service discovery for which instance?
This instance product service.
Now the second is this product service.
Why we need this.
I told you each load balancing algorithm here I am picking random load balancer is associated with a
particular service ID or client name.
So that's where.
So this random load balancer is now associated with this service ID.
Only when you are invoking this product service then only random load balancer is used.
Otherwise it is not used.
Okay.
So again very simple.
Uh we have to first annotate it with in your application load balancer client annotation.
We will provide a name for which service which configuration has to look for.
So product hyphen service go for this configuration.
Okay then here we have defined that which load balancing algorithm has to be used.
Okay.
That's all.
Okay.
So this is only will not needed.
But now the question comes is what if for product service I want algorithm A for order hyphen service
I want something x y z.
I'll go and for all I want algorithm B okay.
What I'm trying to say is that what if you have different different requirement.
Let's say for service one I want algo a for service two I want algo B.
But for all of the service.
Service three.
Service four service five I want some default algo.
Default load balancing algo.
Same for all.
How we can do that?
Again.
Very simple.
The same thing.
Now we have one more annotation called load balancer clients.
Not earlier.
It was client.
Client.
Now we have is clients.
So the client here has two parts.
One is default configuration okay.
And another is inside a value.
We can provide comma separated different load balancer client.
So now let's say that one I have provided similarly at the load balancer client for product service.
This is the configuration.
Similarly comma separated you can put load balancer client name order hyphen service.
What is the configuration you want to put.
Give it.
Okay.
So different different configuration we can give for different different service if required.
Different algorithm.
Because here I can use random algorithm for order service I can in this configuration I can use some
different algorithm for rest of the service.
I want default right.
So what is the default configuration I want to use.
Let's say this is the load balancer global conflict class okay.
So this is the first place where we have to define that for each service one.
What is the algo algo generally defined in a configuration class.
So for service one what is the configuration class for service two what is the configuration class and
default.
What are the configuration okay.
So this is the first thing.
So now here if you see that I will tell you the first the global config.
This default one right.
Default one I will tell you.
So now here if you see this is first part.
And in this global configuration what we want to do is you recall one part one is each for each product
or each service ID like a product service order service.
No matter how many service you have in your application, which you are dependent on or sales service
like for each one.
For each one, load balancer algorithm would be mapped.
What algorithm have to be created?
Okay.
So now here if you see that now let's say that for product service I have already defined that go for
this load balancer product line.
So this is the first first child client config will load it then the default one.
So it has an order.
So first all the child's.
If there are more child load balancer client that been will get created.
After that the default one will get created.
Okay.
So now let's say that for product service it goes to this particular load balancer product line config.
Okay there it's we have already seen that how we can attach a particular algorithm to a product service.
But now let's say for these two I want common algorithm like a default.
Or even if I have more x, y, z service for all these three my service I need one common algorithm,
one common algorithm for this one.
So while defining while defining a new round robin load balancer, I told you that it's attached with
a particular service ID.
Now this is dynamic right?
We have order service.
We have sales service.
We have XYZ service.
We can't hard code it at this place.
We can't hard code it, right?
It is dynamic at runtime.
That is one of the reason.
If you remember, I told you all the load balancer configuration loads at runtime, like which service
you are invoking.
Okay, now let's say that you are invoking order service at runtime.
So at runtime from the environment it will get a property name.
So this is will give you the service ID dynamically.
And now like similarly I can create an object of a round robin load balancer.
Like whatever the algorithm you want to pick I can create a round robin load balancer algorithm and
I can put a service ID.
I don't have to hard code it now.
Okay.
So I put a service ID and this is the same here.
Service ID are used which is used for service discovery that hey use this.
Call the service discovery for this service ID.
Okay, now when you are trying to invoke sales service with this dynamic runtime, it will get a context.
Get this config.
Invoke this.
Now this service id would be sales hyphen service.
Now this algorithm now also attached with this service ID also.
So for each service id it will have this bean.
Okay.
So this is how global configuration we can write.
Okay.
Now you can ask that hey why you have put at the rate conditional on missing bean.
Remember that.
Here if you see at top.
We have one global config.
We have a global global config in which we are dynamically finding out a service id.
Okay.
And then we are creating a round.
Robin load balancer algo and attach that service ID with that.
And we have one product service also in that configuration we we hard coded IT service ID because it's
a specific for product service.
But there we are creating a random load balancer algo.
So we have to we have to make sure that duplicate product service is not created.
So at runtime now let's say you are trying to invoke HTTP colon product hyphen service okay.
At this point of time now we have two configuration, two load balancer configuration, one is global
and one is specific for product.
Okay.
So I told you that the first priority is for the internal one.
The child one before it goes to the global.
So first it will get invoked.
This configuration will get invoked.
And when this configuration will get invoked it will create a load balancer algorithm and tied with
the product hyphen service.
Now after that internal according to the ordering.
Now global will get invoked.
Now dynamically.
If you see that dynamically it will find out it's a product hyphen service.
And it will try to create a round robin algo.
So for one service two algo will get attached and you will get an exception runtime exception.
So to avoid that runtime exception we have to add that.
And we have to tell that hey, if already a load balancer algorithm is chosen for a particular product
service ID, don't go inside it.
That's all.
Okay.
This is required in the global because we have a specific configuration for the particular service.
And we don't want that in the global.
Also its load balancer get created or get mapped.
So we have to tell okay.
Only in case of missing been go inside it.
If been is already present for that product service don't go.
Don't go inside it okay.
So product service already got run and we have already seen that for product service we are using random
load balancer and we have hard coded it.
We know that it is specific for product.
But in the global we can't hard code it right.
So that's why we are using this environment.
And you already know that why it's load balancer configs are run at runtime maybe at runtime.
This is not much helpful because during application startup we know product service is present.
This is the service.
But for global this is important because we can't hard code it.
So at runtime we need to know which service we are trying to invoke.
And for that service it creates a.
Load balancer algorithm.
Okay.
So now question next come is what if you want to write your own custom load balancer.
You don't want to use round robin.
You don't want to use random.
You want to write your own custom logic.
So if you understand this hierarchy like these are interfaces reactive load balancer, reactor load
balancer, reactor service load balancer.
And these are the concrete classes round robin and random.
So we have to create a child custom load balancer just inside this okay.
And we have to provide an implementation of this choose method.
So that's what I did.
So here I provide my custom load balancer.
Created a child of reactor service instance load balancer.
This one child of this.
Okay.
And here I have a constructor.
The constructor take two part like we have seen like in here.
If you see like new round robin load balancer it does constructor take two parts.
One is your service instance list supplier object and another is service ID the same thing, the constructor
which requires service instance supplier and the service id.
And we have to provide an implementation of the choose.
So this is where what it does.
So this is the first using this object service instance supplier I am doing get if available internally
it will call service discovery.
Once you get the instances for each instance okay.
Like uh you can do an load balancing algorithm if instances are not null.
So now here instances are present.
We have to pick one of the instance so we can write custom algorithm here.
So currently I'm picking only first instance get zero.
But you can write your custom algorithm.
Okay so this is the choose method which does this thing okay.
So round robin you can debug the choose round robin.
Go to the round robin load balancer class.
Check its choose so it first does the same thing.
Get if available which calls the service discovery.
You get the instances.
And for those instances you are doing a round robin algorithm performing in random.
It just called random method.
Now if you write a custom logic after you get the instances, if you got zero instances, you return
empty response or throw exception.
If you got instances, pick one instance based on your algorithm.
Now, once you have written this.
Now let's say that for product service I want to use this algorithm.
How to do that.
We know right in the first in this application startup we have put load balancer client give name equals
to product hyphen service and whatever the configuration is this okay.
In our application order service application and inside the config load balancer product config, we
can now tell that hey this is the load balancer.
Use this.
The first one is we have to runtime during runtime right.
So we have to provide an object here and the service.
So you got it right.
So this is how internally the load balancing happens.
You can write your custom load balancer you want or by default is round robin.
You can change it to Two random to a particular service or to all the service.
The major, major, major problems or difficulty comes into the global only global and per config.
We only have to understand the importance of service ID because these conflicts runs at runtime when
you actually from your service, when you are actually invoking product, service or sales service at
that time, the particular service config get invoked.
Okay.
So that is important.
And you can change the algorithm which you want.
I have already told you, you can uh, know that if global and specific conflicts are present, you
make you have to make sure that, uh, duplicate uh, for one product service or one service two algorithm
is not, uh, created.
So we have to also handle that.
So once you understand this Rest template, you can even the client Rest client.
Is using the same load balancing interceptor only.
No change at all.
So if you recall from the Service discovery video, right.
If you recall for the client service discovery, I told you that we have to add a load balancer also
because internally Fink Framework does the same thing.
Okay.
Because it once you get a multiple instances, it has to pick one instance.
Right.
So it uses a load balancer okay.
So for Fink client we don't have to do anything.
Whatever the service discovery we have to do.
It's the same thing right.
Now.
See this one like I I'm hoping that you have seen the service discovery video.
And you can correlate this, like, without service discovery.
In the feign client, we have to provide the URL.
But with service discovery we have to only give the name hey, I want only product hyphen service.
That's all.
Okay.
And we just invoke it.
Now let's say that if you want to change the algorithm you don't want Franklin to use by default.
You know that internally, if it's using a load balancer it might be using round robin.
You want that hey I don't want round robin.
I want some different algorithm.
How can you even if you are using feign client can you change it now easily same in the application.
If it is only one client then you can use load balancer.
Client provide a name service this for this service this configuration have to be used.
I have written this configuration which will also get invoked at runtime when I'm going to invoke this
service get product by ID.
So here I just change the load balancing algorithm.
New load balance.
Okay.
And attach it with this service ID.
Okay.
Now if you go inside this load balancer choose method.
This choose method for that one that internally it will do what you did first call service discovery.
And then it will randomly pick one of the instance the same thing.
Okay, so even though everything is abstracted from us in case of pain and even in case of rest template,
we only have to use this annotation at the load balance and everything is got abstracted under the load
balancer interceptor.
It's still better.
It's better to understand this little framework so that in any scenario, if an interviewer or your
in company use case come that you have to write your own load balancing logic, or for one of the service,
you have to change the load balancing capability.
How you can do that.
Okay.
So play with this.
Okay.
Play with this config.
Put a debugger point here that uh System.out.println.
Put something that I am inside this.
Run it during application startup.
So during application startup you will see and at the time of actual invoking the service that time
also you will see that it will get invoked okay.
And I already told you again it's a runtime.
Uh, functionality is very important for the global part because in global this service ID has to be
run dynamically because during application startup this would be null because we haven't invoked anything.
So this round robin load balancer algorithm would get tied up to service ID.
Okay.
So at runtime when you are calling product service again this got called.
Okay.
And that time this service ID is got set.
And then this round robin is also get mapped to product service.
Okay.
And once it is mapped now no matter you call 100 time product service it will not call again.
Only one time till it's been has to be created.
Load balancer been okay.
So hope this, uh, give you a little insight on how Spring Framework handles the load balancing capability.
And I hope this is something you will find useful.
If you find it helpful, please, uh, do comment out or if there is doubt, please, uh, put into
the comment section we can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.