Hey guys, on this side and welcome to the next video of Spring Boot.
So in Spring Boot I wanted to cover an exception handling, but I feel that before learning about exception
handling, we first need to understand more better about response and different type of response codes.
Okay, so today I will cover an in-depth about our response in Spring Boot.
So response generally consist of three parts status code header and body okay.
So status code is nothing but an HTTP response code like 200 500 etc. we will see.
Header is something which is an additional information we can send, and body is the data which need
to be sent in response okay.
So to send this response in spring boot we can use response entity object.
So here if you see this response entity it's a generic class.
So whatever the type you will pass.
That type is of this body.
So here if you see if I search for response entity class in this response entity this t if you go to
the parent class, this T is nothing but a type of a body okay.
So if if you are putting this as a string then in the body you can only put a string.
If this is a particular class object, you have to put the same object of that class only.
So take this as an example.
So here I have creating a simple inside of a controller.
This is my simple method which is a get mapping get user.
So this get user here the response entity.
This is I am returning it and the type is string, so means my body would can only be sent as a string.
So now here if you see in the response entity object response or entity dot status okay, so this is
a static method I am sending what should be the status.
So each status denote a particular uh like what exactly happened to your request.
So for this status I am saying that okay request is okay, HTTP status is okay.
And we can pass the header.
So here if you see I am passing like this you can create an HTTP header object.
And inside this HTTP header you can put a name and value.
What is the header name and header value.
So some additional information which you like to add okay.
And then dot body.
And here the body type is your string.
So here we will put a string here.
So I just put like my response body object on go here.
So this is an string.
So this is a how we can send a response back from our controller.
But here if you notice that.
So here we are when we are doing response entity dot status dot header dot body.
So this body should always be at last right.
So body should be last.
So actually it's kind of using builder design pattern okay.
So here if you see when I am doing dot status.
So dot status method actually returning what is the return type of status.
Body builder okay.
So means it is still not a final final status which we have to send.
Then I am doing dot header.
So what is the return type of header is B which is nothing but a bodybuilder if you go and check.
Okay, so again, this is a builder pattern which we are using.
And when we do dot body.
So here if you see the response of the body actual is the response entity final object which we actually
has to return.
So response entity.
So that's why you can't do like set status dot body and then dot header.
No that will not work.
Right.
So I think you already know uh builder design pattern which I have already covered in my Design Patterns
video.
So I hope this is one practical example where a spring boot is using builder design pattern.
And that's why dot body would always comes at last.
So what to do when we don't want to add any body in the response?
There are many scenarios like delete use case where we don't add any response in the body or any data
into the body.
So what we do.
So here you can't do that.
Hey Dot body and do something.
We can't do that right.
So here we can use this method build.
So here if you see the build method actually also returns the response or entity.
And if you go inside build method you will do see that it will do dot body.
And inside it will put null only.
So here if you see if in the response entity, if we see build method what exactly is doing.
So here it see that build method.
What exactly is doing dot body.
And it just putting a null.
And ultimately the final response which we have to send okay.
So here if you see the same method I am putting dot status dot header.
Now I don't want specifically to put here dot body null so I can use it dot build.
So internally it will put my body null.
Okay.
So that's where somewhere you will see dot build and somewhere you don't find.
Hey there is no dot build.
So why.
So in that case you can already know that if dot build is used means there is no body and if body is
present, you don't need build method because body itself generates a response entity for this.
Okay.
So now here if you see just see this one I am creating, uh this is my controller class.
I am doing get mapping.
Now here I am creating an object new user.
I have created one object and I am returning that object itself.
Now here, if you see, I am not putting response entity here.
That's also you can use.
So what happen is spring boot internally wrap it around your response or entity.
So internally it would be like response entity user okay.
So usage of response entity is not like a mandatory.
You can directly return the object whatever you want it to do.
And ultimately internally Spring Framework will do a wrapping of this okay.
And here if you see I am not sending any status I am not putting any header.
So what should be the status by default status would get set here is 200 okay.
So that would status will go.
But if you have to specifically set an status you have to use response entity okay.
Otherwise if you are not using by default would go 200 okay.
Okay.
Now there is something called at the rate response body.
So this is very interesting.
And many times this is we don't even consider it right.
But it has very important meaning.
So let's see that when we return plain string or Pojo directly from the class like here.
In this case I am returning Pojo right then response body annotation is required.
But now you can say that hey here you haven't put a response body here I haven't put response body here.
Then how it is working now you are saying there whenever we are directly returning any plain string
or any Pojo class something, then at the response body is required annotation is required.
Why?
So first of all, we need to see why it required it.
It is required because it tell to considered value as response body not as the view.
So this whatever the object which I am returning considered as a body, the response body not as a view.
Okay.
So now let's see an example.
In the above example, we did not use at the rate response body.
As I told you right here, if you see I am directly returning a user an object, and here I haven't
used at the rate response body, I haven't used it because this at the rate rest controller.
If you go inside it and check I have I went inside this rest controller.
If you go inside and check it has this at the rate response body.
So by default with all methods within this user controller which has this annotation with all method,
this response body will get appended.
Okay, so you don't need to specifically add this annotation because in the rest controller itself,
this response body is present.
But let's say that you are using at the rest controller.
You are not using Rest controller, you are using add the controller.
Then will this code work?
Now here if you see that I am using add controller, now I am directly returning a string okay or any
object right?
Will this work?
Now here.
If you try to run this it will throw an error.
Not found.
What?
It not found what it is trying to search.
So here you are trying to return a string.
So what?
Since this controller do not inherit like at the response body.
So by default this spring boot will be considered as a name of a view.
Okay, so Spring Boot will try to look for some file with this name.
Okay.
And since there is no such file exit it says that not found.
Maybe some JSP files are right or something.
So it tries to render like hey where is that view present.
So that's where with at the rate controller you have to specifically use response body.
You have to tell that hey what I am returning considered as the response body, not as a view.
Okay.
Now now we know that response entity what it is.
We have to be very clear with the response codes because this is not only important for learning exception
handling also, and also in your day to day project and from the interview perspective also this is
like very very important.
So we have five categories 1X2XX, 3X4X and 5XX.
So 1XX is very less frequently used.
To be honest.
It is mostly informational.
So information is like when the client and server are talking right.
And server has to send some information to client.
Then server use this response code and it is also called as.
This is like a intermittent code.
So server when tells to the client some information this is not the final response.
This is not the final response.
Server might still be processing and then later it might return a final response.
So this one is just an informational one.
And it could be an interim interim response code, not the final one.
Second one is success, which is like whenever the request is success Then we use two x return code.
There are so many return codes.
I will tell you three x axis for redirection.
When you want client to look at some other API or some other resource to get the data.
For X is like a validation error, like something is not either client did not send the correct correct
data to you, or there is some business logic failure and but this is an expected expected failure.
This request should fail.
Okay.
So that's why it's like a validation failure.
This is this five x is server error which is like all this request should get success.
But because of some issue at the server null pointer exception typecast exception something it got failed
which should not be.
And we should always make sure that our component should have five errors as low as possible, so I
will cover the one axis at last.
So let's start with two x axis.
So here if you see that request received from client is processed successfully.
So here if you see I have added five most frequently used status code of 2X2 hundred.
Reason is okay.
So this is mostly used in get method and post method.
So here in the get method your request is successful and you are returning the response body.
So response body exists.
And in the post call when the it's an idempotent call.
When I call mean.
Let's say that post call one.
So post is like addition of new user.
So now let's say that new user is added.
User one added.
Now again.
Duplicate call.
Duplicate call is coming.
Now what happen is it will not insert a new new row.
So what it will say is that.
Hey, it's an iodoprotein.
Iodoprotein means the same row is already present.
So it will say 200 means no new row is created.
But request is success and it will return the same data for this one.
Okay, so no.
When it is an idempotent, no new row is created.
Okay.
The same row is used and the data is returned and it will pass as 200 okay.
So during post call add call we returned 200.
And it yes it has response body 201 is created.
It means created and it is mostly frequently used with the post API request is successful and new resource
is created.
So when the first call come post.
So there we created a new row in the DB and that's where we returned 201 means some row is created.
Okay 202 accepted.
So here it is.
Also most frequently used with the post request is successfully accepted by the server, but processing
is not yet completed.
So mostly like batch processing like export import we use this.
So what generally happen is client invoke an API.
Let's say add export.
Now the server method simply return your 202, this one accepted and before returning 202.
It might have spawned a new thread, some new thread and continuously processing it.
Now this this task might take some time.
Ten minutes, 15 minutes, some exporting, importing huge data we don't know.
So it's like accepted but not yet completed.
204 no content is your delete operation request is successful and we are not returning any data in the
response body.
Okay.
If data is returned in the response body, we have to send 200.
If data is not returned in the response body, 204 should be returned and request is successful.
Means like no post processing is happening, everything is completed like all the processing is completed.
Like this 206 partial content.
So this is also a post API mostly used.
So generally when you are performing bulk operations like bulk additions, I am trying to do bulk addition
of let's say 100 users.
Now, out of 100 users, 95 got passed and five requests got failed.
So what shall I tell to the client whether it's a request is success or fail, then we can tell that,
hey, 2006, it's a partial content.
Like partial.
It's a partial, not fully content.
Right.
So this is how we can use 2006 as a partial content response code.
This is just one example.
Then we have three which is called redirection.
Client must take additional action to complete the request.
So now the action item is on the client.
So mostly frequently used when we migrate from legacy API to the new API.
Okay.
So here let's say that 301 which is a moved permanently.
Okay.
So now here what happened is it says that all requests should be directed to the new URI.
The old URI which client is trying to access is now moved permanently.
So here I will show you one example.
So in this one here, if you see that, let me zoom it a bit.
Okay.
I hope it is visible.
So here, if you see the very simple controller class I have one get mapping old get user.
So this is an old API.
Now in this case I am returning.
What I am returning is response entity set dot status is moved permanently.
So move permanently is your 301.
And in the header I am returning location.
This is the header name and the value.
I am putting the new API value slash API slash new.
Get user this one and inside this get mapping I am just uh returning response entity status is okay
and body is success.
Simple.
Okay.
So now here if you see from the postman, if I am running, if I am hitting old get user.
So here.
If you see I am getting success now you can ask right?
Hey you are hitting old get user API which is actually not not there.
Body is empty, it's not returning and status is moved permanently.
How come you are getting status 200?
And if you see that the response is success, which is actually my new API body actually success.
So how come this postman automatically redirected me to the new API when I'm just hitting old get user?
So here if you see that when we are so all the clients know this, understand this status codes.
So when I said that move permanently means some action is required from the client.
What action?
In the header.
I have put a location and the new API.
So if in the postman, if you go to the settings there.
If you turn it off, this automatic follow redirects.
If I turn it off now, if you run it here, if you see.
Do you see any response.
No.
What is the response code?
You got 301 moved permanently.
Now.
Now in the header this location is there which actually client follow.
So you got it.
So client understand this right okay.
If 301 is coming then I have to go look at the location in the header.
And whatever the new API I will follow it okay.
Then there is something called 308 permanent redirect.
Permanent redirect and move permanently.
There is a slight difference.
Okay.
The slight difference is that in the 308 it do not allow HTTP method to change while redirect.
For example, your old API call is the post, but you can redirect it to get.
But in the 308 you can't do that if your old API is post.
The new API should also be the post.
But here in the three zero move permanently, this is not the restriction.
If your old uh API is your post, the redirected you can move to get also.
So this method there is no such restriction.
But in 308 this is actually improved.
And it makes sure that the post if old is post then new also should be post only.
That's the only difference then very important 304 not modified.
So here, if you see, I'll tell you where most of the engineers use this response code wrongly.
But let's first understand where it.
What is the purpose of this 304 not modified.
So client make a get call server return it with the last modified time in header.
So this is the first step.
Server makes a simple get call some get call server return the data, but along with the data, also
send the last modified time when this data, which I am returning when it was last modified.
Now client cache the response whatever the data response it got for the get call it, cache it now client
make another get call.
Pass this last modified time in header and the header name is if modified since okay.
So client add this data into the header if modified since Sense.
So what we can do is when we are writing a API, right?
And we want to add this functionality, we can read this header if modified, since if it is present
into the get call, what it will do is server will check the particular resource last update time with
what client provided.
Okay, in my db for this row.
User one.
It was last updated on let's say 13th September and if modified since earlier which client earlier when
it make a get call is let's say also is 13th September.
Now let's say that if if there are no change, like the client has the latest data itself, there is
no modification in the DB.
After that, the server will say that 304 not modified server do not load all the data and return all
the data server will simply say that 304 not modified, and client will use its cache data.
But let's say that client data has 12th September, but in DB it's now updated and it has 13th September.
Then what it will do is server will load it, server will process the request as usual and return the
new values.
So that is what the main purpose of 304 not modified.
But I when I talk with different engineers, they also use with the patch calls how they are using with
the patch calls.
Now let's say that you have one data into a DB user.
One name is SJ.
Let's say now one patch call is coming.
Now patch call says that hey update name to SJ.
Now our API let's say update API, update user API.
Try to update the name, but before that we have a business logic that hey, in DB, whatever the name
we have, if it is equals to equals to whatever the name it is coming SJ like the new name, whatever
the new name, it is coming, then don't update, then don't update.
No, no need to update required, right?
Already in DB is there?
And also you are trying to update SJ what is the point of updating it?
So generally our business logic has this.
And there we try to send that hey 304 not modified but this is wrong 304 not modified.
This is not the actual purpose.
The purpose of 304 is generally used with the.
When the client using the caching and client is also passing this header and server consuming this headers
if modified since but never try to use with the patch like in this scenario.
In this case.
Generally you can pass 200 okay.
Like no row updated nothing.
Right.
Or 200 for like no content.
Okay.
So then we have for XX which is a validation error.
Client need to pass the correct request to the user server.
So the server has failed this request.
But it's not a fault of a server.
It's either for fault of a client or business logic.
So there are many popular for error codes.
First is 400, which is nothing but a bad request.
Most frequently used with get post patch delete APIs.
Client is not passing the required details to process the request.
If for a particular API, I need these three fields.
If client is not passing one of the field, Then server will fail with bad request.
Hey, you haven't given me the correct request itself.
I need these details to process the request for zero one.
Unauthorized.
Again popular with all the APIs.
Any API which require authentication.
So if you see that in the header when you pass a request, certain API required, like some token,
like bearer token or basic authentication where you provide a username password itself.
But if you are not providing those, then and if you try to access that API, it will fail with 401
unauthorized.
Any API which accept the authentication and if you are not providing this, it will fail.
403 forbidden is Let's say you have an API user API.
Okay.
Now in this user API there is certain operation.
There is certain operation.
Let's say that if API gets invoked from admin, if admin invokes that, then it's okay.
Let's say that, uh, there is something called address.
Address updation.
Updation of an address can only be done by admin.
No other user has permission for it.
If if a call comes apart from admin and they are trying to update an address, okay, then it will fail
it with forbidden because that client do not have that permission to update the address.
Only admin as a client has the permission.
Okay.
Then we have 404 not found.
So here what happens is generally popular with get patch and delete, not with the post.
Because in the post we are trying to create a new row, but here.
404 here in the APIs, let's say you are doing a Get call.
You are trying to fetch certain user 123.
Hey, get me the details of this user.
You are trying to do a patch.
Hey this is a patch call for this user.
So now we are working on a particular ID, we are telling a server that hey, I want to do a get on
this ID or patch update of this ID or delete this ID.
So what generally server will do is it will try to find the details of the ID which you are passing
in a DB.
In this case let's say one, two, three it trying to fetch, but in DB there is no such ID present.
What server will do it?
Server will send 404 not found.
Hey, I didn't found the resource itself.
What you are trying to look for?
Okay, so maybe client not had sent this ID correctly.
Then we have 405 method not allowed.
So again let's say that hitting get API but with post http method.
So here in this case it's a get.
But if I just make it post what I will get 405 method not allowed.
So I have this is the get API.
But if you are trying to hit with the wrong method you will get this.
422 is Unprocessable entity again popularly frequently used with all this methods during get post patch
delete.
What exactly 422 is that some business logic failure?
Business logic failure means that very specific to your business.
Let's say that France users should not be allowed to open an account.
Okay, as we haven't got a license in this country, so France users should not get onboarded.
But if any request comes to post for user countries, let's say France.
Okay, even though request is valid, everything is proper.
All the fields are set.
But your business logic will stop this.
Okay, so your business logic will catch this.
That and says that hey, it's an unprocessable entity.
We cannot process it.
It's a business validation actually.
Then we have something called 4 to 9.
Too many requests.
So here what happened is that we are putting a rule for example, one user can max make ten calls in
a minute.
This is the maximum calls it can make in a minute.
Now if user 12345 makes the 11th call in a minute, then that will get blocked and will throw that 4
to 9 too many requests.
Okay.
So consider this type of a rate limiting.
It's a type of rate limiting.
We are trying to do that.
Uh if too many request user is making okay then your rate limiter will say that hey not allowed.
Uh, so in a minute, ten calls are allowed, right?
So okay.
One, two, three, four till ten calls are all success in a minute.
The 11th call.
Let's say that it says that.
Hey, rate limiter says that.
Hey, the 11th call which you are trying to process.
This is not allowed now.
So what you can do is you can send 4 to 9 too many requests.
And also there is something called 409 which is called conflict actually.
So 409 conflict.
Is that like uh, you have one request, one request, which is already in, in progress.
It's not yet completed in progress.
Let's say slash user 123.
Any API let's say patch API okay.
So mostly 409 conflict is popular with patch, delete and post not with the get.
Get is like you can do as many times get.
But this three operations patch, delete and post.
What happen is that when it is in progress, when it is in progress and another request comes same slash
user.
Slash 123.
Same thing.
Exactly same.
What it will say is that we return 409 and we say that, hey, conflict, it's already in progress.
So what generally we do is we put a lock, right, let's say in some cache or itself say that, hey,
one, two, three.
Currently will says that some it is locked.
Okay.
So till this request is not completed, this lock would be there.
And if any request comes while this above request is in progress, it would like conflict and we will
return 409.
So generally this lock generally we also put TTL itself after let's say ten second automatically get
released because we know that 10s is sufficient for a one API to get completed.
Depending upon your API's, maybe you can put five second one second two seconds right?
Or if you don't want to put TTL, you want to manually release it.
Okay.
Request a success and then go and remove the lock.
Remove this lock.
Okay.
So 409 conflict is also very popular.
Okay.
Then we have five access like a server error request got failed at server.
Even though client passed the valid request means something wrong at server.
So here if you see that this is the most popular like always we send 500 internal error code.
Generally any issue comes because for us server should not fail at all.
When we write a code, we write in a way that this if it's a valid request.
All the validations like for all the four access it has crossed, all validations are success.
Then request should get success.
So every time we write a code, we write in a manner that if there is request, is proper.
No business logic failure.
User is properly authenticated.
Has the permission.
Request should be success.
But if still it is failing.
We don't know man.
Like we are not purposely writing a code to fail and handle it.
No.
So that's why most of the error goes into this bucket.
Internal server error.
Because we we are writing the code, but somehow it is failing which we might have to debug.
So it's that's why internal server error generic error code when no specific reason is suitable.
Okay.
501 not so generally here if you see the null pointer.
Exceptions are the major culprits here.
Sometime DB is down okay.
So those are the factors which can contribute to a server failure.
Then we have 501 not implemented here.
What happened is uh API lacks the ability to fulfill the request.
So what happens is sometimes we do, uh, code in chunks.
So now let's say that I have created this API slash API slash user, but the code implementation is
not fully.
But I have put that a if this API has been invoked, return this 1501 error code.
Okay.
Because this implementation I have not completed yet, I will I will do it.
So API is in development and future it would be available.
But if you are still calling it you will get five zero.
One means currently this API is not completed, it's in development.
It do not have the ability to fulfill the request today, but in future.
Yes, it might be.
Then there is something called bad gateway.
So server acting as a proxy and while calling upstream got invalid response.
What does it mean?
So for example my application is deployed behind reverse proxy nginx.
So this is your engine X and this is your application.
Okay.
If nginx is not able to communicate with my application.
So here nginx is uh here working as a gateway okay.
And it is trying to communicate with my application but it's not able to communicate okay.
Because of let's say misconfiguration of port number or something.
Then it is eligible to throw 502 bad gateway server acting as a proxy.
So this is acting as a proxy while calling upstream.
So it is trying to call upstream my application but get invalid response like not able to reach it so
didn't get a valid response.
Maybe be some time out while doing a connection.
And then it says that bad gateway.
And then we have one access like information which is very less frequently used.
So interim response to communicate request progress or its status before processing the final request.
So here one has 100 which is continue mostly used in post API.
So what happened is before sending the request client, check with the server if it can handle the request
and ready.
So at step one client add few things in the header first like what is the content length.
What is the content type.
And this header also put that hey expect 100.
So now when the request goes to the server request server will see that hey okay in the header Expect
is present, so means it.
It doesn't have to process the request.
Now it knows that the client is just checking.
So server validate everything.
Client is authenticated.
It has proper permission.
It has content type length do proper validation.
All the till for access.
So the the server makes sure that no for no no error should have come in this okay.
So all the validation will be done.
And server send that.
Yes.
Send 100 in the response code that continue.
And after that client receive it and invoke the API without the expect header and server process the
request.
So now here if you see that this 100 where this server centered, this is not the final response code.
This is just an interim.
Okay.
So client pass to the server that hey can I server check it and say that.
Yes you can.
And then ultimately client pass the request and server sent this.
So this is the final response actually.
So this that's why one access is known as informational that it is just an interim response code.
Which server send it to send certain information to the client.
To be honest, in the last nine years I haven't used this 100.
Continue.
Okay.
But most of the other response codes is like frequently used.
We have done a lot of migration from legacy and here.
So 33X is also very frequently used.
So it's not like that.
Okay guys.
So any doubt any question let me know.
We can discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.