# Java Enum, POJO and Final Classes Explained with Examples | Java Classes - Part3

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh or ARB generic classes we have already covered in the second session of this classes.
And today I am going to cover this three Pojos enum and final.
So this is the third part of this video.
So it's a big topic to cover if you go in depth.
And currently we are going in depth on.
Finally in the fourth part I will cover this last three.
Okay.
So let's today cover this Pojos enum.
So here if you see there is lot of different type of enum which I wanted to cover, right?
And the final singleton immutable and wrapper will cover in the next part.
I'll cover then in the maybe I think uh the next video I'll cover this up.
Okay.
Let's start with our part three with the Pojo classes.
So what is Pojo.
So see Pojo First of all, full form is plain old Java object, right?
So now here in the name say Old Java object.
So old Java objects means very simple class, right?
No fancy things.
It contains variables and its getter and setter method.
Okay.
The class should be public.
It should have public default constructor.
Okay.
No annotation like at the rate entity.
At the rate table.
Like on annotation on the variables.
Nothing.
No annotation.
It should not have any annotation.
It should not extend any class or any or it doesn't implement any interface.
Right.
If a class has this properties then a class is known as Pojo classes okay.
So just remember few things that it has.
No it has very less restriction.
Right?
So here I have created a very simple class student.
So here if you see that student does it extend anything.
Does it implement any interface.
No.
Okay.
One good thing it is public.
Yes okay.
So another thing here.
If you see that it has a variable right.
So no restriction.
So here I have created one variable default.
Another is private.
Another is protected.
You can create another public right.
So there is no restriction anything.
And I have a getter setter for this get and set methods for the name.
Similarly for each one okay.
So the default constructor is always a public.
So I haven't uh so it's uh has a public default constructor.
So this property is also satisfied class should be public.
So yeah this is also satisfied it has a variables and getter and setter.
Yes it has right.
Uh no annotation used.
I haven't used uh at the rate uh entity or at the table here something.
Right.
So it doesn't have any annotation and it doesn't extend any class or implement any interface.
It doesn't extend or implements anything.
So these type of classes is known as Pojo.
Right.
So where does it this used.
So right here I will tell you that see in whenever I work day to day right.
I, I do use a term lot of term time pojos here.
Right.
One Pojo.
So see I'll tell you two places.
Generally I write a pojos only first places when a request comes to our system.
Let's say this is our component.
This is client.
Client send a request.
So let's say request has certain object ID name something or two fields ID and name.
It's a request object.
So when the component receives this data.
So it is always advisable that don't work on this object.
Right.
Do like a massager.
Do you have a massage this and have in a like so.
Because in a component there might be different classes right.
So it have class one, class two, class three, class four.
And you might need this kind of data this data to be used by multiple classes.
So it is it is a good practice that whatever the objects which is coming from the request, that should
not be used directly by all the classes in our component.
Why?
Because if anything, you have to change here.
Let's say uh, because of certain thing, ID has to be changed to customer underscore ID, then it is
possible that it might cause an issue in all the classes.
Okay, so it is always advisable that you should do 1 to 1 mapping in your component, which all the
rest of the classes understand.
So there we write one Pojos.
So let's say in that Pojo I have a variable name int here in the request it is id.
But here I am saying uh let's say uh customer ID.
And here they are saying name.
I am saying here string customer name.
Right.
And I have a getter setter here.
Now whatever this ID comes I do a mapping.
So I first create an object of this and fill this value id.
I fill this in customer id name, I fill this in customer name and all other classes use this Pojo.
Okay not this.
And if in future anything change, it would be a change only at one place while doing a mapping because
rest of the code understand this class, not this one.
Okay, so this is one place where the Pojo helps.
Okay?
There might be another place like you have a like request comes in.
It goes through controller right where you have our Rest APIs.
Then from Rest API it goes to the business logic okay.
From business logic it goes to your repo repository okay.
So there it creates Pojos.
Or you can say that it has entity objects.
Generally we can say that let's say one for let's say you are creating a certain student table.
So you have one student entity.
So there you have a student Pojo kind of thing.
And then ultimately we store into the DB.
Okay.
So generally two places, uh, which mostly I deal with and uh, maybe as a software engineer, you
might be see that generally these are the places where you need more pojos.
Okay.
So just a simple example, but what is Pojo?
I think that should be clear to you, right?
A very, very simple Java class.
Right.
Okay.
Now let's go to enum class.
So see this is very interesting.
Right now if you see that enum so what it has first of all it has a collection of constants.
Before going forward.
Do you know what is constant in the variable class?
I have told that how to define a constant.
You know that using a static final keyword we can create a constant right?
Using static final we can create a constant.
So then what is enum?
Enum as a collection of constant.
You can have more than one constant in this enum class okay.
And what is constant variables.
Which values cannot be changed okay.
So it's constant in enum class.
Whatever the constant you will define, they are static and final implicitly, so means we don't have
to for each constant.
We don't have to tell static final, so they are implicitly static and final in enum class.
Right.
So these are some of the properties which I will explain.
But first question should have comes to your mind that hey, when we have already have a way to define
a constant using static final, why we need a enum class, right?
So that's where I have covered this also.
I have covered this part, but I will tell you later only because first you need to understand how to
define enum.
What are the advantages?
Then only you would be able to understand what is the benefit of enum class, when we can already create
a constant through static final.
So we will cover this also.
So please hold this question for now.
But let's first understand what is enum right.
And then we will see the difference where it helps actually okay so there are few properties of it right.
And we will see that first property is it cannot extend any class.
Why why it cannot extend any class.
Because we are calling it a class then class we know that by definition it should.
It can extend at least not at least at most one class.
Right.
So why it cannot extend any class because it internally extends Java dot lang enum class.
So all the enums like.
So this is how we can create an enum class public instead of class.
So you create a class by like this public class keyword.
And let's say any class name right.
Let's say test.
So this is how you create a class.
So how you create an enum.
So we don't use a class keyword we have to use enum keyword.
And even though we are not extending anything implicitly it extends Java dot dot enum class.
So that's why you can't do extends here because we cannot extend from more than two parents.
Right.
You guys already know by now, right?
Uh, we cannot extend more than two parents.
That is not allowed only from one parent.
We can extend.
Right.
And even though we are not writing anything here, it internally extends Java dot lang dot enum.
That's why enum classes cannot be cannot extend any class.
It can implement interfaces as you know class can implement as many as interface.
So here it is also allowed.
It can implement interfaces.
No restriction over there.
It can have variable constructors and methods.
I will tell you how to create those.
It cannot be initiated right.
It cannot be initiated as its constructor will be private only.
Even if you give default in bytecode, it will be private.
So whatever the enum you will generate class.
Its constructor is always private.
Let me show you.
Right.
So this is the enum sample I have created one enum class public enum and I have given the name enum
sample Example, I have created an enum like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday,
Sunday.
Right.
So these are all the constants.
I'll go more in depth.
Right.
Uh, what their mean is.
But what I wanted to show you that see this dot class file.
Right.
This is the byte code.
Right.
So here, if you see that I haven't defined any constructor, so means there would be one by default
constructor there and see what it generated private.
So by default even it is generated a private itself.
So that's why we are saying that it cannot be initiated because constructor is private in enum it will
always be constructor will be private.
Right.
No other class can extend enum class also.
That is also it has one restriction that no other class can also extend it.
Okay, it can have abstract method, and all the constants should implement that abstract method.
So I will uh, discuss this point also, but these are few of the properties which you should know.
And we'll go through these properties one by one okay.
So let's go with the normal enum class first okay.
So now with the definition of enum what is enum.
It is used to create constant.
Now how to create a constant.
So here now what I have been doing is first of all I'm creating an enum class public using an enum keyword.
Right.
And the name, whatever the name you wanted to give it to an enum class.
Okay.
Now here you can give the constant like this.
Like I have given the constant like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
And remember this semicolon at the end.
Okay, so I have given the constant like this.
Right.
So maybe there might be a different use cases.
You might to have a constant.
Right.
Uh, let's say for example, there was, uh, like, uh, coins in the coins, you have ₹1 coin.
Uh, maybe, uh, sent.
So these are constant and, uh, you might you can also define values.
I will come to it.
But these are constant which have certain values are constant which cannot be changed.
Right.
So here I have used this values.
And these are now my enums here.
Internally its values are given as zero started from
00123456.
Right.
So in the enum whatever the constant you are defining.
Internally there is one value is assigned to them which is started from zero.
The first one has a value like a zero.
Then here my Tuesday is one, Wednesday is two, Thursday is three.
Likewise.
Similarly, Sunday is my six.
Starting from zero it is started.
Okay, I told you that constant has always has certain value.
Certain value which cannot be changed.
So here in the constant, if you haven't defined any, uh, custom values, we will see how to define
a custom value.
If you have just define a constant name but you haven't defined any value.
So internally there is a value is already assigned to them unique values which is started from zero.
Now let's see.
So you have created this enum class and defined your constant right basic no custom values.
And uh, you know that 0 to 0 numbering has been assigned to it.
So they have certain values right now in the method.
Let's see how to use it.
So these are four common methods which is used generally in the enum.
So with this two samples I will show you how to use this for.
So now we have already created the enum class.
Now let's say I'm showing you the first usage of values and ordinal.
Okay, so now I have to iterate over this constant.
I have to iterate over this constant.
How I can iterate.
So enum sample values right.
So here if you see that I haven't defined you can ask me hey we haven't defined values method.
Right.
And it is trying to access directly through class name.
So what method you can directly access to class name which are static, right?
And it is calling values.
Method values is not even defined here.
Then how it is able to access those.
Where is this method?
I told you, right.
Internally it extends Java dot lang dot enum class in.
In this class this method is present which is static in nature.
So what this class, what this method does is it gives you a array.
It returns an array of this constants right?
First Monday, then Tuesday, then Wednesday, then Thursday, then Friday and Saturday.
Sunday.
Right.
So I am taking one by one in the for loop one by one are enum sample and the variable.
And then I am putting what ordinal.
Okay so here first of all you got the usage of the values right.
So values usage is getting each enum Getting each enum in an array form, it will return in an array
form like.
This would be the output enum.
Sample this array.
This would.
This is the return type for this one array.
And now I am iterating one by one.
Whatever the arrays are, I am getting first Monday, then Tuesday and all.
And for each one let's say first sample would be Monday.
For Monday I am doing dot ordinal and what it will print ordinal.
I told you that there is a default values assigned to it which is started from zero.
These are known as ordinal ordinals, right?
When you print dot ordinal.
So you will see that first it prints zero, then in the values.
Second it will come Tuesday.
So Tuesday variable Tuesday sample dot ordinal.
It will print one, then Wednesday.
Wednesday dot ordinal two, then three, then four five, and then for last values is Sunday.
So Sunday.
Sample dot ordinal.
It will print six.
Okay so you got it.
What is the purpose of values.
It will return an array so that we can iterate over this.
All the enums.
And then ordinal is used to get this default uh numbering of this one.
And then there is something called value of a name.
So let's see this one okay.
So now I have this value of method.
Again I haven't defined in this class.
So this is also a static method present into the Java dot lang dot enum class which is a parent of this
class.
So I called this and I send a name Friday.
Hey I don't I don't have a uh, this enum sample variable for this one, but I know the name.
So here value of just pass a string.
So what it will do is it will match up with the name of your constant Monday Tuesday Wednesday.
Internally it iterate and its match with okay the name has been match exact name.
So it's a.
So if you have passed the capital letter.
So it will exactly check for the capital letter only.
So Friday has been match so it will return me the enum sample object right for this Friday one.
And if you want to print its name.
So there is another method called name.
So this is known as name.
So when you do name this name ultimately get printed the constant names right.
So now I am printing dot name enum variable.
Which one.
It I got it.
So it say for Friday.
So Friday it will match this and it will return this.
It will return this enum sample.
And then for this enum sample I am doing dot name.
So what it will print Friday only.
Capital Friday only.
Okay so you got it.
This.
What is the purpose of this for method values is used to iterate over the constants.
Ordinal is to uh know the default values which is automatically assigned starting from zeros.
Value of is like you just pass the string.
It will internally iterate.
Find out the enum object for you, right?
And uh, with the name it will return.
What is the name of the constant you have given?
Okay.
So this is a normal enum class.
So with this normal enum class I think one thing should be clear with you is this extent part right
and it cannot be initiated.
That's also, I have shown you that all its constructors are private, no matter if you given default
also.
Right.
Okay.
Now let's see more things.
Enum with custom values okay.
So now here I told you that if you haven't assign any values, yes they have certain ordinals which
uniquely has value for them.
Okay.
But you can even define certain custom values like this.
So for Monday I have defined two values.
One is v.
So there are two.
Variables I have defined.
So now remember one thing whatever you will define Here.
Whatever the method you are defining, that is for each, that is, for each constant, that is, for
each constant.
Okay, I have defined.
One is integer type val and another of my variable is string.
Comment.
So Monday has this two things.
Tuesday has its own these two things like this.
All the constant has this.
So now how to fill this value for each one.
So Monday has two.
So see I told you one thing that its constructors are private.
That's why they cannot be initiated right.
So even if you see here I haven't defined anything.
So means by default it is default.
But you know that it is.
When you create a bytecode it will be created as a private only.
Right.
I showed you previously.
Now.
So now here.
If you see that its constructors are always private means it cannot be initiated.
But this private constructor can be initiated from within this class itself and how it can be initiated.
So here, here, if you see that Monday it is calling constructor here actually.
So it is passing 101 and one string.
First day of the week.
It is passing one string.
And this values are assigned here in the value and command.
So this is for this Monday.
Similarly it is for Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday and Sunday right.
So for whatever the custom values you wanted to define two, three, four and all.
So the appropriate member variables you need to have okay.
First thing Second thing, you need to have a parameterized constructor.
Like if so, here in this I have two variables.
One is integer, another is string.
So here I have a constructor.
One is accepting the integer, another is string and I am initializing this.
Variables.
These also are for each method for each constant Monday.
Also you will have get well get comment Tuesday also Wednesday.
Also they internally have their version right.
And whatever the method which you wanted to keep at a class level, you have to define it as static
so that it won't be there for each constant separately.
Okay, now I have one method like based upon this value.
So let's say I pass the value one zero 5 or 1 zero six.
Any integer, let's say 107.
So what I am doing is enum sample dot value.
So when you do values what it will do is it will iterate.
It will iterate.
So first Monday it will come.
So it's a Monday sample object.
What I'm doing is Monday sample dot val.
So it's dot val.
So what value it has 101 right.
So is it equals to let's say 107.
No.
Then next one.
So similarly at when Sunday comes.
So Sunday dot val Sunday dot val is 107.
Is it equals to this.
Then it will return me the object of Sunday one.
And here if you see that this is a static, this is static means it is related to this enum class,
not for each constant.
Okay.
And this is how we can use it that I created that get enum from value I passes 107 because it is static.
I don't need an object of it.
I can directly call with a class name.
Okay, and once I got it, so which object I will got Sunday one right?
So Sunday has 107 value.
So what I am printing are the Sunday sample variable dot get command.
So it's get comment I am getting.
So it will return the comment this one.
And what is present over here.
It's second week of.
So it will print second week off.
So you got it.
How enum with custom values work.
Now let's see method override by constant.
Now here I created a simple enum class again public enum enum sample okay Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday, Friday.
Saturday, Sunday.
Forget about this now.
Forget this.
Don't worry about this one.
So I have just created a Monday, then Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
Like this.
Previously like this Monday to Sunday.
Simple, right?
And I have told you that any method you declare here, bottom of this semicolon, it would be it would
not be a common.
It would be like separate for each one for Monday.
It will also have its dummy method.
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
All has this method, right?
But let's say Monday.
Say that, hey, I don't want this method.
I want to override this method like I want to make certain changes.
Then you can also override it also.
Okay, how you can override it.
See I have defined one dummy method here Idea and printing default dummy method.
So now this whenever you get a Tuesday.
Object Tuesday enum sample dot Tuesday and you do dummy method.
It will do this.
But if Monday want to override it you can override like this.
And there it override.
It's a dummy method.
So see same method name same parameter.
Everything should be same.
And I'm putting Monday dummy method okay so this is how you override it.
Similarly in Tuesday.
Also you can write your own.
Right.
So just see this Monday I have initiated the parentheses.
Right.
And inside this create a method which will override this.
Now I am calling.
So let's say I am creating for enum sample dot Friday.
So enum sample Friday.
So this variable I am calling its dummy method which one it will call.
So see, I haven't overrided this for the Friday one, so it will call this one default dummy method.
Default dummy method.
Now enum sample dot Monday enum sample dot Monday.
Now I am calling dot dummy method, so which one it will call?
I have override it so it will call Monday dummy method Monday dummy method.
So you got it right how to override it.
And I think now it will make more sense to you when I say that each method is like for each one.
Monday also has this.
Tuesday also has this right?
You can because you can still override it.
Inside this one you can.
Instead of before putting comma, you can start the block and override those.
Okay.
So I think a method override you got how to do it and what generally this thing.
Now just see this enum with abstract method.
So sometimes what you want is like like you know like what is abstract.
You just define it.
So Monday Tuesday Wednesday, Thursday, Friday I just take three Monday Tuesday and Sunday okay.
Semicolon.
And after that I have put one abstract method right.
Public abstract void.
And if you see there it is only declaration no definition.
And you know that whenever you create an abstract method, its child classes have to define it, right?
But in the abstract, whenever you create an abstract method, all the constant have to override and
provide the definition of it.
So here, if you see that I have created one abstract method dummy method.
Now Monday is providing its definition.
Dummy method in Monday Tuesdays also has to provide the definition because this is abstract, so all
content has to provide.
So Tuesday block started and it is providing this dummy method in Tuesday.
Similarly Sunday in Sunday.
Okay.
Now from the main method let's say I have enum sample dot Monday.
So I got Monday constant and I'm printing dot dummy method.
So it will print its dummy method in Monday.
So it will print in Monday.
Okay.
So you know that in abstract method is also allowed in enum and how it generally takes care of the abstract
method.
So what if any abstract method is defined each constant has to define it or implement it.
Okay Now enum implement interface.
So now here if you see that hey I don't want like each one to do it.
I can want constant like they can use only all this constant can use one functionality.
Right.
So here if you see that I have created an interface, let's say I have given a name my interface, and
I have put method two lowercase right.
I have an enum sample normal public enum name.
But I have implemented an interface.
Whenever you implemented the interface, you know that what you have to do, you have to provide its
definition.
So here I have provided the definition or implementation.
But first in the enum I have created my constants Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
Saturday, Sunday, semicolon.
Remember.
And for this Is constant.
My interface.
The method.
So now remember that after semicolon, whatever you have it is for each one.
So means you can still go ahead and overwrite in the Monday you can still have two lowercase.
And also you can override it because this is for all right.
But let's say interface is generally used when certain method is generally common for all.
So that's why I have used an example of two lowercase.
So what I'm doing is whenever this method is invoked, whatever the name of the constant dot name.
So let's say if it is a Monday object, the Monday object dot name.
So it would be Monday capital.
And I'm doing dot two lowercase so inbuilt.
So it will change it to Monday small and then it will return.
So here if you see that this method is very generic and it is common for all.
So instead of putting it like an abstract and then everybody do the same thing so we can just put it
into an interface.
Right.
And in the interface then whatever we just implemented and it would be common for all just one example
like how we can use an interface with the enum.
Generally very rarely it gonna used right.
But still it's better to know that how to use an interface with an enum.
So now here if you see that enum sample dot Monday.
So you got a Monday or this enum sample variable and I'm printing dot two lowercase.
So this is the only one.
So it will call this one common for all.
So this means enum sample which was Monday dot name.
So it will be capital.
And then it will uh calling two layer.
So it will change it to small and then return.
And it is printing a small Monday.
Got it.
So with this one at least you are now know that it can have an abstract method, right?
And all constants should implement that abstract method.
It can have variable constructor and methods I told you like whenever you create a additional parameter
or additional fields to the constant, you have to define a constructor.
And all right variables.
You also have to define from constructor.
You have to initialize those.
And I have also showed you that you can also create a methods.
Also it can implement an interface.
Okay.
Now let's go back to the first question which we asked.
Right.
What is the benefit of enum class when we can create a constant through static and final.
So let's see the advantage I'll try to clarify.
So let's say I have created a class now No.
And inside this let's say v constant I have used static final int.
Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday.
Friday.
Saturday.
Sunday.
And the same way I have given a value like 0123456 some constant.
Now this cannot be changed.
Why?
Because it is static final.
These are constants.
So this is one way.
This is one way and another way.
Today we have seen is enums.
So these are also constant.
And internally 0123456 ordinal has been assigned.
Right.
So these are also constant.
And internally they are static final only.
So this is another way second way.
Now we know.
Do we need to know that why enum is required and why they are better than this.
Let's see this within this example.
So now I have created this first method.
for the class for this class.
Right.
So what this method is, is weakened.
Very simple method.
If it is a weakened Saturday or Sunday I have to return true.
Otherwise false.
So.
So these are these constants are integer.
Integer Monday.
Integer.
Tuesday 0123.
So I am getting a parameter int day.
So client will pass me certain integer.
And based upon this integer I will compare it with the constant.
Hey, if v constant dot Saturday equals to the day it is Saturday or Sunday, then return true as false.
Very simple method, right?
So this method is for the class constant.
And this method I have created for enum constant.
So the same method same functionality if it is Saturday or Sunday.
Return true.
Else false.
Only thing is is this method is for enum sample.
This is accepting enum.
This is accepting the day integer.
Now let's see the how the enum is providing an advantage.
So here if you see I am calling first method is weakened and I'm passing integer two.
So two is what Wednesday generally right.
So here it got two.
Now I'm checking weak constant dot Saturday equals to equals to two dot Saturday is weak constant dot
Saturday it is five.
So five equals to equals to two.
No six equals to equals to two.
No.
So it will return false.
So first one is uh it will return false because it is not a weekday weekend.
Then I am returning.
Then I am sending six Okay, so six is what six is Sunday, six is Sunday.
So now you are getting here six.
So Sunday is six equals to equals to the day is again a six.
So it will return true.
Now here if you see is there any control if I pass 100.
So here if you see that I never had a intention to write a code like any, any unidentified value come
all I code is in the perceptive from okay.
From Monday to Sunday I should get either 0123456.
But here, because of day integer, I even can pass 100001.
There is no control so currently it will return false, but there is a chance that it might.
This method might work unexpectedly because you can't have control what value can come.
Now let's check with enum right.
So I am passing first of all enum sample dot Wednesday right.
So I got a Wednesday enum sample is my Wednesday.
I am just comparing that okay.
Is this equals to Saturday or Sunday?
No it will return false.
Similarly I'm passing enum sample dot Sunday.
So it will match it up and it will return true.
So one thing difference I think it is very very much visible to is readability.
So if you read the static final one here you see that two 600 is weekend.
But here if you see the code is self readable, is weakened and you are passing enum sample dot Wednesday
dot Sunday.
I don't have to put like okay this two is for Wednesday.
This six is for Sunday.
No this is provide much more readability to the code.
Second thing is it is like if I want.
You can only pass between this either Monday or Tuesday.
Wednesday because my parameters is accepting enum sample variable.
Right.
And this enum sample can only possible either Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday.
Friday Saturday Sunday.
Out of this, can you send.
No.
Not possible.
If you send something that is weekend and you pass, try to pass 1001.
It will say compilation error.
Hey, I want this kind of variable, not this.
And for this enum sample only this you can define.
So you have much more control over your method how it will behave.
Okay.
So these are the advantage of enum over this static final variables.
You can say that.
So final class is something like if you want certain class that it should not get inherited Then you
should create a class as a final class.
Right.
So final class cannot be inherited.
Final class cannot be inherited.
So here in this example I have created one class test class and created it final.
Now if I try to extend it in some other class.
So I'm creating another class my another class and try to extend this, try to extend this class here
it says that compilation error cannot inherit from the final class.
So this is the final.
You cannot inherit it.
So the purpose of this final class is final keyword is you cannot inherit from this class okay.
So it put a restriction.
Okay guys.
Right.
So do practice it.
And any question any doubt feel free to ping me.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
