Hey guys on this side.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today let's start with our first authentication method that is form login authentication.
So um in the previous video we have already seen how we can create a user dynamically.
And what is the industry standard.
So this is the very base of you can say that the authentication method before we I know that we eagerly
wait that okay, let's why not directly jump to JWT which is very very frequently used nowadays.
But to understand JWT also, we need to first understand what was previously popular, what were the
disadvantages, how it was working, and then only while understanding a JWT and OAuth it would give
us a better sense.
Okay, what advantage they are adding.
Okay, so let's not skip this and let's understand this.
Like it would be a uh, like very good interesting.
Uh, you would get to know a lot of things.
In 2015.
I used to work a lot in this, but now, yes, uh, it may be very used.
Limited purpose.
Okay, so let's start without wasting any further time.
So form login authentication.
It's a stateful authentication method.
Stateful means your server is maintaining a state of a client okay.
Server maintains a user authentication state AKA also known as session.
So server maintains the session so that user don't have to provide username password every time with
each request.
So in this what we have appended, you have a client or let's say that user and you have a server.
So first time only it provide username and password.
At this point of time server create a session and stores it.
Okay.
Now also send this session back.
Hey, this is your session now.
For all the subsequent requests, the client do not provide username and password.
It just provide the session.
It just provide the session and server validate the session.
If it is validate the request has been processed successfully.
If the session is not valid, whatever the session ID is provided by the client.
If it is not valid or not found, the request is not entertained.
Okay, so that's what it means.
So that user do not have to provide username password with each request for.
With each request, they provide a session so user enters their credential in an HTML login form.
This is for the first time on successful authentication.
A session is created to maintain the user authentication state across different requests.
Okay, so server is the one who creates a session and stores it.
Okay.
And also in the response it send.
Now with subsequent request, client passes this session ID not username and password.
Very important it do not pass username and do not pass username and password.
It only passes the session ID and server validates it with the session ID which is stored internally.
Okay, so I'll tell you we will see with an example.
And also see this one why it is important.
It's it is a default authentication method of spring boot security.
So if anybody asks you like uh what is the default authentication method.
Is it JWT.
No.
Still, form based authentication is the default authentication method.
So if you have to use JWT we have to manually tell hey use JWT.
Otherwise if you don't tell the spring boot, consider it as a form authentication method.
I will tell you where it is.
Are defined as like it is a default.
Also there are default URL of a login and logout.
So login URL is slash login slash logout.
So what is this like.
So the first URL where we have to provide username and password right.
So it has a default URL is login okay.
And once your session is created once your session is created okay.
It is valid for a particular amount of time.
We will see that.
But let's say that you have to invalidate the session before that time.
You can call logout slash logout.
So these are the default URL which are provided by spring boot.
For the form based login.
You can use this.
When you use this login you can provide username password.
Your session would be created.
And if you call logout your session would get invalidated.
Okay we'll see that.
So this is the default login logout URL.
Now one first thing comes to our mind that hey, what is session and when does it create it?
So this is one basic flow.
I am showing you this is your client could be your browser and this is your server.
The first endpoint they hit is login slash login which is also a default one okay.
With this one they will provide username and password.
Okay.
So when this happened what server will do.
It will create a new HTTP session.
So this is one object.
It creates a new object.
This object is HTTP session object okay.
It it contains various information like what is the session ID okay when the session was created.
And its expiry time.
Okay etc. there are lot more information.
We will see that.
So it so it creates a HTTP session and provide one session ID and saves it in the servlet.
Okay.
We can also save it in the DB also.
But by default you can say that it's in memory like it's in the servlet itself.
Like Tomcat, if you are using Tomcat, it's an insider.
You can say that Tomcat or you can say the in-memory Ram.
So this object is stored, created and stored in a servlet also.
Now once the authentication happens username password authentication happens servlet session object
is created.
The response in the response in the return it set the cookie.
Also in the cookie the session ID it will put the ID this session ID okay.
So it returns that now your session is now on.
Okay.
Currently it is active state.
Now for any further request from the client.
Now they are not passing you username.
Password.
Okay.
They might be calling slash users or slash anything.
Okay.
They are just passing in the cookie session ID and what is the session ID is the one which was received
previously.
Now once it get server get it.
What it will do is it will search for HTTP session object with the ID this one.
If there is an active session, it will find it.
Yes, it fetches it okay.
If it is found if the HTTP session object is found and if it is valid it is not expired.
It will fulfill the request.
It will entertain the request whichever it is coming.
But if the HTTP session object is not found or it is not valid already expired.
It will redirect it to login page.
It will redirect it to the login page.
Okay.
So that it has to re authenticate themselves.
So this is generally known as when we say that session.
This is known as.
Yeah a session has been created means it is maintaining the user authentication state.
Yeah.
User is still valid.
Uh any request which comes in.
Yeah.
Uh, we can fulfill that request okay.
So by default, time to live for the HTTP session is 30 minutes.
So this object which created right HTTP session object by default it is 30 minutes.
But depends upon uh servlet.
Right.
If it is a Tomcat servlet container you are using then it is 30 minutes.
But I would say that it depends upon the servlet container which one we are using.
Also we can configure it to.
If you don't want 30 minutes you want like okay I want only five minutes.
We can change that also.
We'll see that.
And we can also store the HTTP session in DB also.
So currently I told you that by default it will store in memory.
Right.
But we can also make sure that it can store in the DB because it is possible that we have many server
server one, server two okay.
If they are storing in memory the session and if this is a client, this is your client.
If the client request goes here, yeah.
Session object is present in memory.
It would be able to fulfill the request.
But what if the next time client request goes to the server two.
Now server two don't have the session okay.
Then it will ask client to Reauthenticate.
Hey first login.
Okay, so it would be a bad user experience.
So generally in that case in DB it has been this session has been stored in DB.
This session has to be stored in DB so that no matter client request goes to whichever server.
From there they can query the DB phase, the session whether it's valid or not, and fulfill the request
based on that.
Okay, so see this first in application dot properties I am setting server dot servlet dot session dot
timeout.
So this is you can change this one I have changed it to one minute okay.
By default it's 13 minute.
And I will change it to one minute.
Now if there is no activity from the user side for one minute, then in one minute this session object
will get expired.
Just see what I am saying.
No activity so only after one minute of inactivity makes the session expired.
But now let's say it's 1201.
Okay, now you are expecting that by 1202 my HTTP session will get expired.
If there is no activity.
But let's say that user made a request at somewhere in mid.
Okay, so this expiry time will increase.
Okay so it required a one minute of inactivity.
Total inactivity.
So this would when when it was last used when the last activity happened.
From there it will again count okay.
Inactivity of one minute.
Then only HTTP session will get expired.
So that's what what I have written.
If user activity keep on happening, it will keep on authenticating and after one minute session will
not get expired.
Internally, what it will do is when I say that it will keep on authenticating Authenticated me internally.
It will keep on increasing the expiry time.
Okay.
And second, I told you that we can store the HTTP session in DB.
So it's a very, very simple way.
If you see that we need this dependency, which I told you that uh, in the first architecture video,
also, I told you, uh, for the spring security, like we can have this session spring session JDBC
in the pom.xml and in Application.properties.
We can provide this three configuration.
This configuration spring dot session dot JDBC dot initialize hyphen schema equals to always means we
are telling spring boot that hey, you create me the table.
You create the session table for me.
I don't want to create table myself.
You go ahead and create a table.
So here, if you see Spring Boot will automatically create a table for me.
Spring underscore session table for me.
Okay.
And I have told servlet dot session dot timeout five minutes.
So after five minutes of inactivity my HTTP session should get expired okay.
And this will like uh, just tell that we are going to store the in the state of in-memory.
We are using DB.
So here if you see that this is the table which Spring boot will create, this is primary ID, this
is the session ID which was created.
What when this session created last access time.
Maximum inactive interval 300 expiry time.
So based on the last access time it will just keep on add 300 and it will keep updating the expiry time
okay.
And this is principal name is nothing but a username.
So this expiry time will keep on increasing.
If user keep on sending requests based on the last access time.
Okay, so here, if you see that my session is now stored into the DB instead of in memory.
So at this point of time, I hope that at least we are clear.
What is form login authentication okay.
And when we are saying it is a stateful authentication means it is maintaining a session.
And what is session actually.
Okay.
So since we are clear with what is session now let's understand that flow diagram of form based authentication
method.
Very very important.
And also by this point of time you get to know that it involves two step.
First step is login where user provide a username password okay.
And through that we create a session.
Second is Request, like accessing the resource.
Or you can say that request or accessing the resource where whatever the session comes, it will add
the session.
And at this point of time, it will validate the session and fulfill the request.
Okay.
So now let's understand end to end flow for this form based authentication method.
And let's see that if we have to implement it what is required.
Do we need to do anything.
So first step currently there is no session.
Active user is login for the first time means session do not exist.
At this point of time only user exists means and also you already know that in the previous video I
have already told that how to create user okay dynamically.
Also for in for testing the form based authentication, I have created a static one, but you know that
how to create dynamic one but user has to be there.
So assume that we have already present user.
We have username password already present user exist.
Now what the first step user trying to do is calling the API slash login.
This is the default login page form login page which provide okay, we don't have to code for this one.
Spring boot automatically provides right?
Uh, for the form based authentication.
So when you hit this API it will ask for what is the username.
What is the password.
Okay.
So we already know that.
What is the username and password.
We already have seen the previous video I have given I have created.
This is my user and this is the password.
And I click sign in.
So here if you see that username goes password goes and CSRF token goes.
Okay.
So now what happened in the back.
What happens when this submit has happened?
So now call comes to one of the security filter chain.
As soon as you click sign in okay this username password comes to this security filter chain.
Now see understand slowly what would happen.
This is the chain security filter chain.
And this is the first filter which will get invoked.
Username.
Password authentication filter.
Okay.
So now here the flows happen.
So this is the first step which it will do.
It will create and pass the authentication object to Authentication Manager.
So it will create an authentication object.
Authentication object is nothing but this object username password authentication token.
It is nothing but a child of authentication class authentication class.
So it is just a child of it.
So we are creating an authentication object.
So it has your principal which is nothing but a username credential right.
It is protected currently authenticated is false.
It is not yet authenticated.
And no other details present only this much username password.
That's what we are getting currently from the request.
Now it passed to the authentication manager.
And we know that in the architecture video.
I have already told you this authentication manager delegate the request to one of the provider so it
will delegate it to Dao authentication provider.
Okay.
Now what it will do.
So currently we have username and password coming.
So this password if you see currently it's not hashed form.
So it first call password encoder.
Okay.
And encode or hash this password whatever the incoming incoming raw password is hashed first okay.
So that is done.
After that.
What it does is it will fetch the user details either from in-memory or DB.
We have already seen in the previous video.
What's the logic behind it, how it is done.
Okay, so it fetch the user detail.
We have a username right?
Based on the username it will fetch the user details.
So user is already created.
So it will get what is the username.
What is the stored hashed password.
What are the roles user has.
So all this information it will get.
After that it will do.
It will validate the incoming username and password okay.
And this password it has also done the hashed okay.
So it will validate the incoming username and password With the stored username and password.
With this, whatever the it was stored in previously user already created, right?
So whatever the user is already stored, its username and password, and whatever the incoming username
password, it matches it.
If it matched then it will update the authentication object.
What all things it will update.
It already has the username.
It already has the password.
But password it don't add it.
It just say protected.
We don't put it now it change.
If the matching happen then it says that authentication is true.
Yeah it is authenticated.
Also the role whatever the role.
So during the user creation we might have provided the roles which user has.
We have already seen that.
So that role also it will put this role is a for this user.
It has these many roles okay.
So it will update the authentication Object and it will return this fully authenticated object.
Return back to this filter.
Till now, no session is created.
Okay?
Only what happen is we have an authentication object which has all this information now which has roles
authenticated true username.
And yeah all this information like account is not expired.
It is unable credentials is not expired.
All this information is present now.
What will happen now.
The next filter it invoked is security context holder.
Filter what it will do.
What it will do is it will first create a security context object and put that authentication object
inside it.
Okay.
So now you can say that this security context has all this information actually okay.
So this security context has all this information.
And then it will pass this security context object to HTTP session security context repository class.
What it does, it will create a new HTTP session object.
A new HTTP session object is created and it stored the security context object inside the HTTP session.
Okay.
So this HTTP session has all this information now.
Okay.
So you will get to know that when this will be helpful.
Why it does that.
So first this authentication object it stores into security context.
And this security context is passed to this HTTP session security repository.
It creates a new HTTP session object.
It could be uh like, stored here in the DB or in memory.
Okay.
And this currently it is empty.
And then later on it, whatever the security context is there, it saves it inside a HTTP session object.
So HTTP session has, uh, all the info.
You can say that, uh, like session ID and you can say that all the expiry time, creation time.
And also it will hold all the, uh, security context info like all this information.
Okay.
So I'll show you here if you see.
Okay.
I'm just starting a server.
I'm just showing you I am just doing login.
So I have already created a default username and password.
You as e r and password I have created I have in the application dot properties Application.properties
itself, I have defined the default username and password from the previous video.
You already know that I have done sign in okay, user is sign in.
So means when I have done this what would have happened?
So means it has completed all the flow.
So now let me check the DB.
So spring session.
So this is the session data.
Session ID creation time last access time maximum inactive expiry time.
And this there is something called spring session attribute okay.
So if I see what is the spring security context and this is the serialized data, this is nothing but
the security context data.
This one this all data is actually stored in the session.
Right.
So this is all part of session data.
Spring session attributes.
Okay so HTTP session object is created and the whole session of security context object is stored inside
HTTP session.
And it is stored either in memory or DB.
Okay.
So till this point it is clear what has exactly happened.
Now after successful authentication if login endpoint was used.
If login endpoint was used because you know that after security filter chain it goes request goes to
dispatcher servlet from dispatcher servlet.
If there is interceptor it will go there.
Otherwise it goes to controller means some endpoint has to be invoked right.
So if you are using hash login endpoint.
So login is just for spring boot form login authentication.
If it is used then it will hit the default endpoint like just slash.
Okay.
So like this I have first open this URL slash login I have provided my user name, I have provided my
password, I have clicked on sign in.
And when I clicked on sign in now everything happened.
Okay, uh, how it goes and fetches the user existing user it compare whatever the username password
I have provided, then it, uh, whatever the security uh, context came authentication object it put
into security context.
Then it created a HTTP session object.
Okay.
And this security context also put into HTTP session.
And since I am using DB so all the details for the HTTP session right session id expiry creation time,
and also this uh, this HTTP session has the context right?
The security context detail that is also stored there in the DB.
And after that it has to call the controller.
So it calls the default endpoint.
This is nothing but a slash.
So I have created one get mapping of this default endpoint.
I will just say hello.
So that's why whenever I click sign in it will always print hello.
Okay so this first flow is now completed.
We know that how the first flow has happened.
Now the session is created and we know that the session is created for currently in our case like if
we check the DB I showed you right by default is 30 minutes.
But in DB for this one I have showed you it is for 300 like five minutes.
Okay, because that's what I have provided into application dot properties five minutes.
Okay now.
Yeah.
Before that again.
Like if you are not using slash login, if you are using directly slash users.
So now what would happen is it will try to look for that.
Okay.
You are trying to access a record resource.
Is it already authenticated?
No.
So it will redirect me to a login page where I provided a username password.
The same thing happened in the background HTTP session created properly.
Okay.
And all the session details either in memory or DB.
And after that is done it has to invoke the API.
So now default API is not invoked because I was trying to access slash user.
So it will call the same slash users only okay.
So default is only default endpoint is only get invoked when you are first trying to hit slash login
okay.
Now the second point.
So we have completed till this one.
Your client and server.
The client hits server with username password server has created the session.
HTTP session is created with ID and it has all the session details are also plus security.
Or you can say that security context data which has authentication authentication details.
So it has all this data either in DB or in memory.
And it has returned the uh, this ID session ID in response.
Till that we are done it is set into the cookies.
Now after authentication user is invoking any subsequent APIs.
Let's say I am trying to hit slash users or slash any other resource in the request.
I am just providing the cookie and this session ID this session ID now what would happen, how it will
validate it.
So again the first part is filter chain will come into the picture.
Now what is what are the filter chains.
The first filter chain will get invoked is security context holder filter.
Okay.
So now this is the.
So now here if you see.
Username password authentication filter is now not involved.
Okay.
Security context holder filter will get invoked.
And what it will do it will first pass the request to HTTP session security context repository.
It will try to fetch the HTTP session based on the session ID in the request.
Now any subsequent request in the cookie, they are passing the session ID, so it try to fetch the
HTTP session, whether from in-memory or from DB, it will try to fetch it.
If HTTP session is not valid or not found.
Okay, it will redirect it to slash login, but if it is found, what it will do is it will get the
security context from it.
You know that right in the HTTP session object.
What we have put above in the HTTP session object we have stores the security context and security context
has are nothing but a authentication of data.
So it fetches the security context from the HTTP session and returns the security context.
Okay.
So what it will do is now it will store the security context data.
You can say that the authentication data generally in one placeholder security context holder okay.
So this security context holder is available in the complete life cycle of the request.
Till the point of you can say that, uh, your controller get invoked.
This security context holder data is present.
So whatever the security context is coming from the HTTP session, it has all the authentication data.
It has all the authentication data okay.
It will just put it into the security context.
One place holder holder.
And that is now available throughout the lifecycle of the request.
So first thing done as soon as the request come it ables to it.
Go and find the HTTP session and it take out the security context.
Okay.
Now it will pass it to the next authorization filter.
I will also tell you how authorization works, but in the authorization filter it check does user has
the permission to access the resource or not?
Let's say that user is trying to hit slash users API.
Yes, user is authenticated from this jsessionid I am able to find the active HTTP session and it is
not yet expired.
I take out the authentication data.
Okay, so that my complete life cycle in the controller, let's say some flow needed some data.
They can fetch it, but I have the authentication data.
But authorization filter is also required.
Whether this user let's say that this user one has the permission to access the slash users resource
so that authorization filter validate I will show you how.
And once it is validated, yes, it has the permission.
Now the control will goes to dispatcher servlet particular controller.
Now it will access the request follow the fulfill the request.
So you got it like this two step.
So if we just see.
Now you will say that okay.
Now I have to implement the form login authentication.
What I have to do.
So if you just see we don't have to write a single line of code.
Everything is handled by a framework itself.
Everything which I told you like this filter chain everything.
Uh, like it is fetching the HTTP session write authorization filters.
Everything is already there in the framework.
Okay, we don't have to do a single line of code.
All we have to do is configuration.
Okay, I will show you.
And also I told you right.
It is a default authentication method of spring boot.
So if you open this class this is a framework class spring boot web security configuration.
If you see that default security filter chain in this one form login, it has set okay.
So there are different.
So it has two default like it has used form login and basic authentication.
It has set both okay.
But form login it has setted.
So we don't that's why we don't need any code even it has set like okay even if you don't tell anything
by default it will know that yes by default the user might be using form login only.
So all the the flow which I have told you automatically it will go through that flow only.
So all I have added is the dependency and the config.
So dependency is that this is the security dependency.
We already know that like till now.
And this dependency is like I want to store my session into the DB, that's all.
And in the application dot application.properties from the previous video.
You already know that I have created a username and password like hardcoded one.
I don't want to get a random password every time.
Okay, so for in the previous video I've already showed you what are the different ways to create a
username password.
Okay.
And this is the hardcoded one is just for the testing purpose.
It's not recommended in the live and the live recommendation I've already shown in the previous video.
So I have created a username password.
So when the user when during the server application startup time, one user would be created with this
user and with this password okay.
And this is the second thing which I have told, like I want to store the session into the DB and I
want Spring boot to create the tables for me and the session timeout.
I want five minutes Okay.
So we can test this one.
Like if you hit the API slash login API you will provide username and the password.
Okay.
Now if you click on the sign in okay.
So you will see that in the response after the successful authentication like uh in the response set
cookie you will get a session.
A session has been sent to you okay.
And later on any API you will access okay.
You will see that in the request.
We are passing that session ID again okay.
So this is the request.
We are passing it to the server.
So we have done nothing.
All we have added is form and application dot properties.
And this all has been handled.
We are able to do all of this stuff.
Okay, now one thing comes to your mind that, okay, let's say that if I want to change few things
like I don't want this default login page or default logout page, I want to create mine.
Mine login page.
Mine logout page.
Or I want to relax authentication on few endpoints.
If you see by default in the framework what it says that no matter any request, you have to be authenticated.
But let's say that you have like hey, I have certain public APIs.
I have some public APIs for which authentication is not required.
I don't want to force the user to authenticate.
These are public API.
How can I relax them?
Simple.
Write your own security filter chain.
Very simple right?
So in my configuration at the right configuration I have created my own configuration.
So here, if you see that I have said the same thing.
Any request authenticated but any request matches this.
Any API, let's say slash users API permit all no need to authenticate it.
So I am considering this is my public API.
This is just for example right.
So let's say that slash user is your public API.
You don't want any authentication.
So I just put dot permit all and any other request authenticate.
And here if you see I have just used form login with defaults.
So customized what with default.
So here with default itself login page is your default slash.
Logout is your default.
So if you want your custom login page you can change here like dot form login.
You can change something like form.
So something form dot login.
What is your login page?
Something.
My login.
Something like this.
You can change it whatever you want to do.
But what I mean to say is that you have to write your own security filter chain.
Right.
So now you get to know at this point of time, let's say that if you have to work with JWT, you will
always see that we have to write this security filter chain because we don't have to use dot form login.
We have to tell something like hey, something, JWT something because form login is the default one,
otherwise we have to tell it.
So now you know that okay.
Why for in my company we are using form, but we are not writing this bean.
Why?
Because it's already the by default one.
Okay, now form based authentication is clear right?
But still one thing left is authorization filter.
And also one more thing I am not going into like we have seen that right.
By default, the spring creates the table for you that session.
Session tables.
The this session tables.
Right where it gone.
Yeah.
Spring underscore session.
And also there is one more table like spring underscore session attributes something.
So these two tables it creates where it has all the data present.
We can also do that.
We can instead of relying on spring to create table for us we can override and we can create our own
table.
I don't want to go into that way because, uh, this is I don't think that it is widely used now, but
this is to set a fundamental.
In 20 1516, when I was working, we were writing our own tables and we were managing those table like
we have more tables and we are managing the session whether to increase the time or not.
Okay.
Whether to update this column or not like all this stuff, but I don't want to go in that way.
Like where we are managing by ourselves.
Just consider that it is possible.
Otherwise, if you don't require it, you have the basic need.
Let the spring manage your tables.
Spring tables for you and you already know that.
Why it is required?
Because you have different servers than you need to store somewhere.
Otherwise request goes to different server.
If it is stickiness is not maintained then there you will ask unnecessary user to authenticate.
Okay.
Yeah.
Now let's come back again to authorization filter which is left.
So as I already told you, that once the user is authenticated, when user is trying to access any resource
authorization check is mandatory.
It is done to make sure that user has permission to access it.
We already seen that By default.
Spring boot security do not put any restriction.
Again, do not put any restriction on any resource.
We have to do it manually.
Now let's say that you have endpoint slash user users by default.
If user is authenticated, if user one try to access it authenticated it will access it user two authenticated
and try to access it.
It will let it accept it.
Don't put any restriction by default we have to do it manually.
That ho hey for user one look for this role whether this should be user role for user two, look for
this role admin role it should have while accessing this resource.
So we have to tell that if you don't tell that no restriction, if you are authenticated, go and access
the resource.
So authorization has two phases.
Phase one.
So phase one is like you know that we have security chain filters.
Security chain.
Okay.
After that security chain.
Filter chain.
What is that your dispatcher servlet.
And then there is your controller ultimately.
Okay.
So authorization done at two places.
First at filter filter level.
Second at controller level.
Authorization check as part of security filter.
That's where our authorization filters comes into the picture.
Right.
And the second phase is authorization check after request passes the security filter but reaches the
controller.
So request passes the security filter but reached till the controller.
Now there I am checking that user is has the authority to access the resource or not.
So we will see this later because currently we are looking at the filter.
Okay.
So this one how to do at the controller level authorization.
We will see later because that is common for form based basic JWT or any other authentication method.
Because the control now digital controller now there we have to do an authorization.
So that part is common for all the authentication method.
But this part security filter this is unique for each one.
So for form based we know that authorization filter comes into the picture.
We have already seen that.
So how it does that.
So if you look that it's very simple I told you that by default spring boot security do not restrict
any resource.
We have to do it manually.
So I am doing it manually in the security filter chain I am telling any request matches this slash users
should have the role has role user.
This is just a string.
You can give anything okay and internally it append row l role underscore.
So it append this.
So ultimately internally it would become role user.
Like you can give anything.
It's a string but maintain a like follow some uh proper naming conventions okay.
So what I am telling is any request matchers like slash users should have the role user.
Okay.
So it will authenticate.
Also, it's not like it will not authenticate.
Authenticate plus has role also will be checked.
Also here in the application dot property I have added while creation of a user and password, I have
also assigned this user a role user.
Okay.
We have already seen that like in the dynamic.
Also how we can while creating a user how we can assign a role.
So while the application is startup user is created let's say there is some user table.
User is created with user name password and the role user is created okay.
And we have mentioned that slash user has the role user.
It required this.
Now what would happen now I am manually restricting that any user trying to access this endpoint should
have this role okay.
And also I told you no need to add role underscore.
It will automatically get added.
Now in not authentication filter it is authorization filter.
Now in authorization filter it will validate okay before I say anything just a very quick recap.
When the authorization filter is invoked, what is passed to it?
Security context folder.
What security context folder holds security context folder holds security context data which has all
authenticated data.
Authentication data has nothing but this this this is authenticated data right.
So it has all the user role, everything which is there in the DB only from DB it found right.
It called it fetches the user detail from the DB username password role.
It has all this data right.
So.
Now when authorization filter invoked it will validate okay.
User is trying to access this user's endpoint.
And this endpoint required role user role underscore user.
This because we have tell here.
And it knows that authorization filter got security context.
This has authentication data where all the user details is present.
All the username password role is present.
So it knows that this user has what role.
So we have already given this role okay.
So it will match.
If it match well and good it will let it go through the controller.
If not it will pass.
Forbidden exception.
Forbidden this one.
And in Application.properties let's say I am giving that this user has admin role.
But not.
But this API required this user role.
Now let's start the server.
Let's first user try to.
Let's first try to user login.
User pass user is successfully login.
Now I am trying to login.
User API endpoint when I hit.
It says that forbidden 403.
There is a mismatch in the role and authorization filter is the one which throws the forbidden exception.
Also, we can give as many roles to a user like more than one.
Okay, so here if you see request matchers, this API if anybody has.
Now I am using has any role.
Now I can provide like a list user admin anything.
And similarly I have provided here like this by comma separated I can provide as many roles I required.
Okay, so I hope by this point of time, form login authentication is clear.
So there are few questions can come sometimes during discussion how to control the session per user.
Now let's say that I have one user.
User one.
It is using browser one and it has created session here.
Now the same user using browser two or another window created another session incognito mode or another
session two same user session three.
What if it creates 1000 of session?
So we have to control the sessions right per user.
So we can also control it very simple way.
There is something called session management.
In the session management for session we can set the maximum session is one and after that max sessions
prevent login.
True.
So with this two field set like one one time, you are able to do create a session works fine.
Second time when you are trying to do it will say that maximum session of one user for this principle
exceeded.
Okay, so it will try to like with the username.
It will try to match okay, because with username only it fetches the data from the DB.
So only one user per session is allowed.
After that, if it exceed it will throw an exception.
If you want multiple session for you can just increase this 234 something like that.
There are also some time ask this what is session creation policy?
We haven't discussed anything like that right.
But if you see that dot session management, dot session creation policy is required.
Even if you don't write this, this is by default added if required.
So what is this session.
Creation policies.
So there are four values it can take if required.
Always.
Never.
Stateless.
If required means HTTP session is only created when needed.
And this is the default.
That's why above we haven't used it.
What it mean if only required.
So let's say that I have a public API.
I have a public API.
Okay, for that one HTTP session will not be created okay.
So it only created for which it is required.
Wherever authentication is required it creates HTTP session for that only.
But if you change it and use always always then no matter what HTTP session is always created.
If already HTTP session is present then it will reuse it.
But no matter whether it's a public API or not, a public API HTTP session would get created.
Okay.
But generally for public APIs, authentication is not required.
So generally you don't require you don't need to maintain the state because because let's say public
API is hit by uh, millions of times, you don't have to maintain an authentication.
It's just like informational.
Okay.
So that's why if required is generally preferred.
And it is default.
You don't need to create a session for each APIs.
Also for whichever it is not required.
Never says that.
Do not create a session.
Always use if present.
Okay.
And stateless is like no session is created at all.
It is used for stateless application like JWT.
Okay.
So this is what session creation policy mean.
And this is how generally we set.
And the last question which can come in like what are the disadvantage of form based authentication?
I think by this point of time you already got it.
Like first is like as we have discussed in the previous, vulnerable to security issues like CSRF,
we have already discussed very beginning all the attacks with demo.
Okay, how the CSR demo session hijacking is possible.
So form based authentication is vulnerable to it.
But if you see that by default CSRF is enabled for form based login, you can disable it.
Also in the security filter chain you can say that CSRF disable, but we should not do this for form
based authentication.
Always enable it CSRF right?
Because it is vulnerable to attack like CSRF, so do not disable it.
This is just for sample.
I am showing you.
You can disable it and session hijacking So you know that the session ID is passed in the cookie.
So it is very much likely that your session get hijacked.
It got stolen.
And using this your session ID, the attacker uses it.
Your resources access your resources.
The second is the session management is a big overhead.
So currently everything we have seen is handle to framework.
But I told you that when in 2015 and 16 we were working in a company, it was handled all manually like
because as per the business lot of things in the session, we have to manage according to business need,
right.
So generally if it is a very simple business then yeah, you can use framework.
But definitely as the business grows lot of custom needs required.
So you have to manage the session yourself.
So session management is a big overhead.
You have to have like a session tables, you have to manage its expiry and all this stuff.
Right.
And also now in case of distributed system like it would be like a scalability issue for sure.
And this is the subsequent issue is that database load.
Now you have in the distributed system let's say you have multiple services.
Or let's say that even for one service you have multiple instances.
Definitely you need a DB.
Then like you can't have a session stored in memory.
What if, as I told, because nowadays we have load balancer in front of the client, it can pass the
request to anybody.
So if earlier session is created here, user says that you are authenticated.
Now the second time it tries to access the control goes to the second instance.
Now you say that hey where is the session or and it will say that hey authenticated slash login page
again.
So this is a bad user experience.
Okay.
So that's why in memory is not used.
If you have multiple instances, you have to put into DB so that all the instances fetch the session
from the DB.
So there are multiple server.
Then we need to store in the session into db or cache.
So again memory you require lookup time is required which increases the latency.
Okay I hope this form login authentication is totally clear right?
Do practice it with your hand even though it is not very frequently used.
Nowadays JWT is very popular, but this is the fundamental if our this flow is clear, right?
All other authentication method, we will get to know that how they are working.
Why exactly we need those okay.
And if there is any question feel free to ping in the comment section.
We'll discuss more.
See you soon.
Bye.