# Java Memory Management and Garbage Collection in Depth

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So today we are going to very very important topic in Java Java memory management.
Right.
And before we start so I want to say that please excuse my voice I have a little bit cold.
So I'm sorry for that.
So here if you see that till now we have covered a basics like how to create a class, how to create
a primitive data types, how to create an object right.
How to call a method.
So this thing should comes to your mind right here.
How do we manage.
How do we the memories are allocated to them right.
So let's understand this today because this is very very important interview questions.
And plus when you start working in the company you will see that how much importance is given to this
okay.
So now let's start this.
So there are two types of memory.
When I'm saying memory it's I'm talking about Ram right.
So there are two types of memory which Java creates stack and heap.
And when we are talking about memory management who manages this memory JVM?
JVM is the one which manages this memory, right?
And it create it divides the memory into two parts stack and heap.
And it stores different type of data inside it.
So let's see first what kind of data stored in a stack and what kind of data stored in heap.
So let's say this this is your.
Stack.
Now here, if you see that I am creating multiple copies of it, I'll tell you why.
And let's say this is your heap.
So generally heap has more memory than stack.
Okay.
And it only have one copy.
Now what kind of data is stored inside a stack.
So first of all, it stored temporary variables, right?
So let's say you have created a method inside a block and you created a variable int a equals to ten.
So it's life is very temporary with that within this open bracket and closing bracket.
After that it got destroyed.
So this is known as temporary variables right.
So all temporary variables are stored inside this stack.
Okay.
Then separate memory block for method.
So whenever a method is being created.
So let's say this is inside of one particular method public get something.
So for each method there is a block of memory frame you can say that stores.
And inside that method, whatever the variables, whatever the reference it's created, it will store
inside this memory frame.
Okay.
So I'll tell you an example with this one.
But first let's go through this.
What kind of data is stored and we will see the example.
It will clarify you more okay.
But let's see this store primitive data type.
So this is also nothing but a primitive data type.
So primitive data type is stored within a stack store reference of the heap object.
Whenever you create an object like new with the new keyword, whenever you create an object it stored
inside a heap its memory.
But it's reference reference of object is stored in the stack.
So these type of reference I will tell you later, but first understand what kind of data we stored.
So but there are different type of reference.
Strong reference.
Weak reference soft reference phantom references.
Right.
So I will tell you later.
But first understand what kind of data we stored.
Each thread has its own stack memory.
So now you know that.
That's why I've created multiple copies of stack because each thread.
So this is let's say thread one has its own stack memory.
This is thread two has its own stack memory.
Thread three has own stack memory.
Thread four has its own.
But if you see that all the threads share a common heap memory, okay, variables within a scope is
only visible, and as soon as variables goes out of scope, it gets deleted from the stack in the LIFO
order.
So what I mean to say is that everything is here in the stack is within scope.
Everything has a scope.
I will tell you how.
So just wait for it.
For an example.
You will get to know how this leaf order is performed and what is mean by the scope.
When the stack memory goes full you will get this error.
Stack overflow error okay, now let's understand this with the example, right?
This is very simple class.
If you see I have created a class memory management and I have one public static void main.
So it's one method okay.
So this method has one primitive data type one object one string literal right.
One object I created to invoke this another method.
And I'm doing an invoking of this method.
And then you can say that this has invoked this.
And inside this I have another reference to an object, another string literal and another string object.
This is not a string literal.
So this is a string object using new keyword.
So it's a very very simple class.
We have covered methods variables.
Right.
So you should be easily understanding this what I have written.
But now let's understand this how memory is stored for this one.
So now let's create a stack.
So let's say this is our stack.
And let's say this is our.
Heap memory.
Heap memory is always larger than stack.
And so here let's see this.
First of all main method is invoked whenever the main method is invoked.
I told you for each method a block of memory is stored.
So let's say I have stored this block memory.
This is for main.
So this is one scope for the main.
This frame.
You can call this as one frame of memory for which method main and all the variables which are created
inside this main method it would be stored in its block Okay.
So this is its scope.
So now let's say main method is called.
We have created its memory.
Now I have created a primitive variable.
Primitive variable 110.
So I have stored it here.
Primitive variable ten.
So as you know that primitive variable doesn't hold any reference.
It store the value itself.
So it is stored into the this memory of this scope.
The second is I am creating a new object new person.
So one memory is created here let's say.
This is your object person object.
And this person object has a reference who is storing the reference person object, so it has one person
or obj.
So this holds a reference to this memory.
Okay now I am creating one string literal.
So as you already know from the previous variable class that string literals stores the data into the
string pool and where does string pool?
Stores?
String pool is saved inside the heap only.
So there is something called string pool.
So whenever you are creating a literal string literal so it would be stored here 24 okay.
And what is the reference string literal.
So it will create a reference variable string literal.
And it is storing a reference to this 24.
Okay.
Now the third line is new memory management.
So see, I am creating one more object now.
So let's create one more object here.
I have created one more object.
What is the object memory management.
Memory management object and its references inside mem obj in the same main one right.
So it would be inside this only mem obj.
So currently if you see that all are within our scope.
So scope is still going on.
Scope is not yet finished okay.
So within a scope you can access all the variables right within a scope.
So this is a scope.
Within a scope you have access to all the variables.
So now object storing a reference to memory or memory management object.
Now I am invoking a method memory management test and passing this reference.
So now you see that I'm creating an another method.
So for each method it will create a new reference.
So I am creating an another frame.
So this frame is for.
Which method.
Memory management test method.
So this scope is for memory management test method.
This scope is for main.
And now this is for this one.
So this is it's this method frame memory frame.
So first of all it has this person obj.
It has this person obj.
And what reference it has.
So we pass the reference of this one new person.
So new person is here.
So this has reference to this one only.
Okay.
Now see I have created uh, another reference which is pointing to which object, whatever the person
object is pointing to.
So I have created another reference person obj two.
Person obj two.
And it is pointing to the same memory.
Which person obj was pointing person obj was pointing to this.
So it was also pointing to this one.
Same.
Okay, now I have created one more string literal 24.
So whenever I, as you know from the previous class, whenever you created a string literal first it
will check into the string pool.
So is this literal present?
24 is present.
If yes, it will not create new.
It will use the same.
So it will create string literal two, reference string literal two, and it point to the same from
the string pool itself 24.
Then it's create a string literal three and it's a not a literal.
It's a new object because I'm using a new keyword.
So it create a new object which is string object and has the value 24, but it is inside a new this
one string literal three.
And it's storing this reference here.
Now if you see that I have got a closing bracket, whenever you get a closing bracket means scope is
finished whenever the scope is finished, you have to delete all the variables or references created
within that scope.
So now this scope is finished for the memory management test.
When the memory management scope is finished, it will delete this scope.
It will delete this scope.
Right.
So now if you see that it's going in the left manner last in first out.
So this one was the added last after main.
But it is the first one to get deleted when this scope is get deleted.
So all this will also get removed.
So now this is removed.
So this reference no more exists.
After that this get removed.
So this reference will also get removed.
Okay.
Now after that this will get removed inside this.
This will get removed, right?
So this reference will also get removed.
After that this will get also removed.
So its reference will also be removed.
So now you see that it has done remove this memory management test method frame and all the variables
we have created.
We have removed in a LIFO manner.
We have cleaned up.
Okay, now it moved to here.
Now the control come back to here.
This method is completed now.
Main method closing bracket has been reached now main method closing bracket has been reached means
main method scope is also finished.
So we are removing this also when we are removing this.
So what we are doing is we have to remove this memo BJ when memo BJ is removed we have to delete this
reference.
So this reference is removed.
Then we remove string literal and this reference will be deleted.
Okay.
Then person obj reference is deleted.
Its reference will also be deleted.
Then this value will be deleted.
So now if you see that the method execution is completed right.
Stack is empty and everything is done.
But now you have noticed one thing here Shreyansh.
What?
We have deleted the references which was pointing.
But what about this objects which now created in the heap?
How we will delete those because their reference when their references were deleted.
So whatever was pointing that we have deleted that reference.
But now these objects are left in the heap.
Who will clean this up?
That's where the garbage collector comes into the picture.
Garbage collector is used to delete the unreferenced object from the heap.
So now for this object.
Is there any reference from the stack?
No, there is no reference.
So garbage collector will remove this.
Now it will check.
Hey, is there any reference?
Is anybody referencing.
No, nobody is referencing.
This will also be freed up.
Hey, for person object, is there anybody referencing?
No, nobody is referencing.
This will also be freed up.
Okay.
Similarly for the string pool, if it is not used after all, it would be removed, right?
So this all will be done by garbage collector.
Garbage collector runs periodically, right?
JVM controls JVM controls when to run the garbage collector.
So see there is a command called system dot GC.
So in your application code if you write this command?
You are telling that.
Hey, run!
The garbage collector and garbage collector will try to scan the heap.
Hey, what?
All object?
There is no reference.
If it find any object for which there is no reference, it will delete it.
But JVM says that there is no guarantee that even if you type this, I will run the GC.
So running the garbage collector is totally depend upon JVM.
So JVM has full control over garbage collector whether I should run it or when to run it.
Okay, so even though you write it, there is no guarantee that garbage collector will run.
And that's why it is called as automatic memory management.
Right?
So you don't have to worry about freeing up the memory.
JVM takes care of it automatically.
It periodically it keeps on checking the heap memory.
And if it seems that okay, heap memory is filling up fast, so it will run the garbage collector more
periodically, more faster.
If it seems that.
Okay, We have.
I have sufficient space.
No need to worry.
JVM may run, uh, garbage collector.
Very less.
Okay, so you understand that?
So now you have understood this stack memory, how it stores the block, how it stores the variable,
how it store, the primitive data type, how it is stored, the references.
Now I'll tell you about this strong reference.
Weak reference.
Okay.
And also you have already know about how each thread its own stack memory variables within a scope is
only visible, and as soon as the variable goes out of scope, it gets deleted in leaf order.
I think you get it by the scope, right?
So this variable is not visible inside this scope, right?
So each variable is visible within its own scope.
And when stack memory goes full it's throw stack overflow error okay.
So now let's understand this.
What are the different type of references?
So in a simple way, I have told you this way that for a stack this is a heap.
This is a stack.
This is heave heap stores the object.
This stores the reference of object.
Reference of object.
So now let's say this example I have created here.
Person.
Person object equals to new person.
Okay.
So I have created an object of person.
And p object is the reference to it.
So this is p obj is a reference to this.
This is known as strong reference right.
So this is known as strong reference like how we are using it as of today mostly.
This is known as strong reference.
So when garbage collector invokes now garbage collector runs.
Now it says that hey, is there anyone who is referencing to this object?
It will see that yes, there is a strong reference.
So it will not delete this.
It will survive.
Okay.
Second is weak reference.
Weak reference.
How you create a weak reference.
There is a class called weak reference.
You want to create a weak reference of person.
Now you are saying that okay this is weak p obj equals to new weak reference.
Of person and you are creating a new object.
New person object.
Okay, now see this?
Whenever you create an object like this, so you are creating a new person object.
Let's say you are creating another new person object okay.
So this is another person object.
But you are making a weak reference, right?
You are creating it a weak reference.
So now here you are creating a one more week.
P obj.
Weak p obj.
So there is a reference but it's a weak.
What does it weak mean.
Weak means that as soon as the garbage collector runs, as soon as garbage collector gets invoked,
it will freed up this space, right?
So it's not like a strong.
A strong says that, hey, garbage collector, don't delete my object because I have a strong reference.
Somebody is using it, but weak reference is that garbage collector is not run.
I am able to access it, but let's say garbage collector runs.
It is not mandating the garbage collector that you cannot free it up.
Hey, if you run, freed it up, right?
And if you try to access what object, what value, it will get null.
Okay, so that's the difference between strong and weak.
Strong tells the garbage collector that do not delete this.
I have a reference, but weak says that I have a reference.
I can access the value, but if you run, you can feed it up right?
As soon as you run, you can feel free.
You can make it free.
And if I try to access it after that, I might get null value.
So that's weak.
And there is something called self-reference.
Self-reference is a type of weak reference, right?
What it tells is, hey garbage collector, you are allowed to free it up, even though I have a soft
reference.
But only do it when it is very very, very urgent.
Very, very urgent means that there is no more space and you have to create a space.
Then go ahead.
You can remove it, no problem.
Okay, so only difference between a weak and soft is like weak is like as soon as garbage collector
will run, it will feed this.
It will remove this object.
Soft reference tells that that.
Yes.
Garbage collector.
You are allowed to free this, but do it if it is very, very urgent and you need the space very urgent.
Okay, so that's the only difference.
Okay, so generally we hardly use this in the company.
We are mostly using a strong reference part.
Okay, but it's good to know this.
We have this type of references also weak reference, soft reference a strong reference.
If there is a strong reference present to an object, this object will never get deleted.
Till a strong reference is present.
A weak reference is present.
As soon as garbage collector will run, it will remove this.
No matter weak reference is present or not and if we try to access it, it will get null value.
If it is a soft reference, GC might decide that okay, I have sufficient space, let's keep it alive.
So it's GC totally.
It is allowed to remove it if it want, but GC will say that okay, I have sufficient space, let it
live for some more time, right?
So soft is just this.
But totally GC is allowed to free it up, but only do if there is a very shortage of space.
Okay, understood this one.
References.
Different type of references.
Now before we jump into the heap.
Very, very important.
I just want to tell you that how the reference can be changed.
So this is a heap.
This is a stack.
Let's say I created this one, uh person obj equals to new person.
So what will happen in this case a person object will be created obj reference will be there in the
stack.
It will pointing to this.
So first if I do this obj equals to null means what I am doing is I am making this removing this reference
and storing obj null value.
So now garbage collector can invoke and remove this.
Okay.
Another way is let's say I.
So this is one object.
And currently it is pointing to this one.
Okay.
So currently it is pointing to this one.
Now I am creating another object person obj two equals to new person.
Okay.
So what I'm doing is I'm creating another object.
So this is a person object one.
This is person object two I am creating a new object and obj two is the one.
So this obj one let's say this obj two.
This is storing reference to this one.
If I do this obj one or this is let's say one obj one obj two.
So means what I'm doing is obj one is now storing the reference of this one one obj one obj two.
So this one.
So now here, if you see that garbage collector, when garbage collector invokes it will freed up this
because there is no reference to this one.
So there are different ways like garbage collector can get invoked.
Right?
So there is no reference to this one.
It get invokes and you can manage the references through which.
And if heap is getting full also, then garbage collector get also invoked.
Okay, so whenever object is not present, no reference is present.
It is allowed to freed up the memory by the garbage collector.
Okay, so now we know how the what kind of data stack store, what kind of data heap stores.
Now get little bit more into the heap memory, right.
Now let's go into the heap memory.
I hope you are finding this topic very, very interesting guys.
So heap memory is divided into two parts, which is young generation.
And old generation.
And there is one more part which is generally known as non heap.
Meta space.
Okay.
In the previous version of Java I think before Java seven it is called pram gen pram gem.
But now it is no more used.
It is used a meta space.
It is called as meta space.
Okay, so this is not a part of heap memory.
So heap is generally so.
This is your heap memory which is divided into two part young generation and old generation.
So young generation is further divided into three parts.
Eden.
S0 s1.
This is known as.
Survivors.
Survivor.
Space.
And this is Eden.
Okay.
Now let's understand this.
Very, very simple.
Right?
But very, very interesting.
Now let's see.
How when you create an object where it stores first.
So this is let's say you are.
Young generation.
This is your old generation.
This is your.
Eden.
This is your S0.
Survivor one.
Survivor, sir.
S0 s1.
Okay.
Now I am creating an object one.
I am creating a new object one.
So first of all, whenever you created a new object, it goes inside Edirne.
Okay.
This is your object one I am writing oh one to save a space.
So it is object one.
Let's say I created another object.
Object two.
Object three.
Object four.
Object five.
So I have created five object.
So currently everything was empty.
So I created five object object two object three object four object five.
So five objects are created inside a Edirne.
Now let's say after a periodic time, after some time garbage collector got invoked.
So first time garbage collector invokes.
Now garbage collector do two things.
So there is a something called an algorithm called mark and sweep algorithm Them Mark and sweep algorithm.
So what it will do is as a part of first step mark, it will mark all the objects, which is no more
reference and it is allowed to delete.
So let's say object two and object five is something.
There is no reference.
There is no reference like this.
And it is allowed to be deleted.
There is no reference let's say object two.
So it mark it like okay, object two and object five are allowed to be deleted.
There is no reference.
Then there is something called sweep algo.
Now what this sweep algo will do.
Is it do two things.
It will first remove this it remove this from the memory.
And what it will do is it will sweep this other the surviving objects into one of this survivor stack.
Or you can say that memory place.
So now here.
This
010304
will come into S0 okay.
And it will be removed from here.
And this two will get deleted and it will age will be added.
So age is its one.
Its age is one.
Age is one.
So means their age is increasing.
Right?
So this process is called minor GC minor GC minor garbage collector because it's very fast.
It happens very periodically.
Now let's say second time.
Now let's say uh, another objects created before any garbage collector runs, another object created
let's say obj six obj seven.
So where does obj six and obj seven will be created, let's say here obj six obj seven okay.
Because every time a new object is created, it is created inside a hidden only.
Now let's say garbage collector got invoked after this.
So first it will do Mark.
So now it will do a mark into all Eden s0 s1 like whatever the objects.
Hey which one?
There is no reference.
So let's say obj seven.
There is no reference.
So it marking it obj four there is no reference.
It is marking it.
Now they are eligible for deleting.
Now sweep will happen.
So what sweep will do is it will delete this remove from the memory.
And what it will do is that in the other.
So alternatively first it put into S0 nine.
Now it will put it to S1.
So obj six.
So object six is put here.
Now its age is one.
Object one is put here.
Its age was one, now its got age.
Increase to two.
OB three.
Its age was one.
Now its age is two again plus one.
And this will get remove obj.
Object six is already there with age one.
So this is Eden.
Get freed up.
This got removed and this got freed up.
So if you see that at a point Eden would be free after the garbage collector and one of the S0 and S1
would be free.
Okay.
And alternatively we put the data into S0 as one and we increase their age.
Now let's say I have set my threshold.
Threshold value has like age three.
Whenever age three is reached I have to promote them.
I will tell you what does it mean.
So now let's see.
I have created one more object, let's say object eight.
So in which memory object will be created newly here.
Object eight.
Okay I have created let's say object nine.
Now third time.
Garbage collector runs now garbage collector runs.
What it will do.
It will first.
Mark the objects which there is no reference.
So now let's say it's marking that okay I have to delete this one.
I have to delete this one.
Okay.
Now the sweep will happen.
And what sweep will do is it will delete this.
It will delete this.
Freed up the space.
And what it will do is it will put object nine from Eden to this age one.
And from S2 it will bring object six.
Age Is one here, then it will to object one age was two, now age will become three.
Now here if you see that one thing.
So let's first clean up this object nine is there.
Object six has been moved to S0 this freed up and object one has been moved to S0 this one.
Now here, if you see that I have defined a threshold age of three, and after three I have to do promotion.
So what does it.
So now here, if you see that object one has reached its age, it has survived this much time.
So whenever it survive a particular threshold it has to do a promotion.
And what promotion means is this object has will be now moved to old generation.
This object one will be now moved to old generation.
Okay.
So now in the old generation.
Only difference is that here it is called minor GC.
Here it is called major GC.
Whenever GC run.
Why?
Because it first of all, whenever the GC runs here it don't run to periodically like maybe let's say
here it is run every one time in ten second.
Let's say I'm just saying it right.
But let's say in old generation it might be running one time only in half an hour.
I'm just saying that theoretically that here the GC runs very less periodically, very, very less as
compared to the young.
And also whatever the objects are present into old generation, there is kind of a big objects, right?
They are used to frequently.
Right.
So it takes a lot of time.
So these are like faster as your young generation.
Right.
So you can say that objects created deleted created deleted.
So it's very fast.
But old generation generally happen is like there are lot of references because they are alive from
so long, they're alive from so long.
So there could be so many references pointing to them and all right.
And they might also have a further references to them.
So generally this process is, uh, garbage collection is little bit time taking than young generation,
but it's uh, it has it do the same thing.
It first do Mark if there is no reference and then delete it.
But here the garbage collection process is called major GC.
Here it was called minor GC.
You understood that young how heap memory is divided into young generation and old generation and gen
generation.
We have Eden and Survivor space.
Now there is something called meta space right.
So this is a outside of the heap.
What data it is.
Store your class variables.
I think you have seen the Uh, variable.
Uh, topic.
Right.
You have no.
What is class variables?
Every, uh, object which you create through static.
That is class variable.
So it store class variables, it store class metadata.
Class metadata means store information about the class from which objects can be created.
Right.
It store constants.
Right.
Uh, you define right.
Static final.
So these are constant.
So all this kind of data, metadata information constant class variables are stored into the meta space.
Right.
So as soon as like Java JVM needs need to load certain class, it will load it here as soon as JVM doesn't
need any class.
So it will remove it from here, right?
But this is important.
Now we have understood about the heap, right?
Young Eden survivor.
Old.
Old generation is also known as tenured.
Permanent generation.
So that is, uh.
Pam.
Jim.
It is used to be earlier one.
Now we call this meta space.
I have already told you.
Right?
So this was in the old, old Java versions.
I think before, uh, before Java seven.
I think you can check it once.
I think it is before Java seven.
It is a prime gem.
And the major difference between prem gem and meta space.
Meta space, I think from, uh, from Java seven or Java eight, we are using beta space, right?
But here the major difference between them is like, uh, prem gem was a part of heap.
Was a part of.
So you have young, you have old, then you have Prem gem.
So it's a part of a heap memory and it is not expandable.
So as soon as it will get filled up, you will get out of memory error.
But here Metaspace is out of this heap is now only young and old.
And Metaspace is separate.
That's why it is called as non heap.
And it is expanded.
Expandable as you require.
Okay, so that's the major difference.
But the kind of data they stored is kind of same.
Now let's understand about the garbage collector algorithm which is we are kind of uh our last topic
here today.
Garbage collector.
So I think you already know by here what is garbage collector?
How it get invoked.
Like, what is the purpose of using the garbage collector?
And one of the algorithm I have already told you the mark and sweep algorithm.
So as a part of first phase mark, it will identify what all objects need to be deleted and the sweep
it will just remove those objects from the memory.
Right.
So there is something called mark and sweep with compact compact memory.
So what is the difference here is simple.
Nothing much.
So here if you see that uh, let's say this space memory space heap.
So here you have one object which is identified that it can be deleted.
There are objects here, let's say.
And during the mark I have identified what all objects need to be deleted.
Let's say I have identified this.
Identify this.
And as part of sweep, I deleted it.
So I have deleted this.
Now here, if you see that how our memory is generally would be like this.
So one data is here, one data is here, one data is here.
But there are certain memory segments which are freed up here.
There are certain memory segments which are freed up here.
So with compaction, what happen is it will bring the objects into sequential.
Write it compacted so that we have a memory fragment in a sequential form later, so that any new object,
it can be added later.
Otherwise it would be very difficult to put an object in this fragments.
Right?
So what it will do, is it compact the remaining objects which survive, and so that we have a freed
free of space at the last.
And it would be used to put an object there.
Okay.
This is known as mark and sweep with compaction.
Now there are different versions of GC.
First is serial GC, second is parallel GC, third is.
Concurrent mark and sweep.
This is C.m.s.
And fourth is G1 garbage collector.
This is the default.
Default version of garbage collector in Java eight.
Okay, now I'll tell you this is very, very important to understand this serial GC.
Now you know that garbage collector is used to remove up the memory from the heap.
From young and old.
Both, right?
So serial GC is that only one thread?
Only one thread is used and this thread will work.
Let's say garbage collector initiated.
And this will work and freed up the space.
Only one thread.
One thread let's say.
So this is called minor GC and it is called major GC.
So when the minor GC will get invoked, only one thread would be working.
When major GC will invoke only one thread would be working only one GC thread.
So what is the disadvantages?
First of all, whenever you are only one thread is working, it definitely work would be slow.
So it would be little bit slow.
Second thing is GC is very very expensive.
Why?
GC is very expensive.
Because whenever the GC work starts, whenever the GC work start, all application threads will get
paused.
So that's why we call that the world stop when the garbage collector runs.
So let's say your application is running.
As soon as the garbage collector runs, your application will become paused.
Now garbage collector will complete its work and after that it will resume.
So if GC is slow, then definitely your application would become slow because they are pausing too many
times.
So that's why GC is very expensive task, because when the GC work starts, all application thread will
pause.
So this is one of the disadvantage of GC that only one thread doing the work of cleanup.
So in the Java eight the parallel GC is used in this depending upon the core.
Let's say if you have two core CPU four core.
So this many threads got initiated for the garbage collector and they work parallelly, right?
So when there are more threads, definitely it would be little bit fast and there would be less pause
time.
But still there is a pause time, right?
But only thing is multiple threads are working to freed up the space.
So you will get a little bit less pause time because the far the work of cleanup would be done a little
bit faster.
But still, this is you can say that in the latest.
Uh j17.
And all there has been work has been done to further improve this through concurrent mark and sweep.
Concurrent mark and sweep is says that okay, while your application threads are working, this is your
application thread.
Concurrently GC threads are also working.
So it's a concurrent GC thread.
So your application thread is working and in parallel GC thread is also working.
No one is stopping.
So application threads are not stopping because of GC threads right.
But it's not 100% guarantee, right?
JVM doesn't guarantee that your application thread will not stop.
Only it says that I will try my best that your application threads will not stop.
I will try to do concurrent mark and sweep concurrent cleanup.
I will try to do.
But I don't guarantee 100%.
And also there is no memory compaction happens.
So whatever the memory got freed up.
So let's say there is some segment freed up.
There is certain memory segment.
So no compaction happens in this.
So then there is a further improvement is like G1.
So G1 you can say that the better version of this where it says that okay try to give you 100% that
okay, your application thread will not stop.
And also it brings a compaction that all the memory is bring together and all the freedom.
Memory is added at last so that they can be used.
So you got it.
Currently Java eight is using parallel GC and there is a further in the latest version of Java.
There is a further chance that the post time can be reduced to a very minimal so that your throughput
Increase and latency decrease.
When your throughput increase means earlier your application can process 1000 requests per minute.
Let's say now, because there is less pause time, you can process, let's say, 1500 requests per minute.
So your throughput will increase.
Definitely.
When what will happen is when your throughput increases means you have, uh, threads are not pausing.
So pause time has been removed.
So definitely your latency will go down.
You will see the advantage.
Okay.
So that's pretty much I have for you in memory management and garbage collector.
Very very important topic.
Please go through one more time.
You will understand it better right?
And yeah I think that's it.
If any doubt, please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
I will try to resolve your doubt as soon as possible.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
