# What is LLD and Pattern Categories? Difference between Is-a & Has-a relationship

Side.
Welcome back to the channel.
So today's video is gonna be short, but it's important because I still feel many engineers has doubt
with like what are the categories of low level design or what is even low level design and what are
some of its relationship?
Okay, so yes, let's start without wasting any time.
Uh, so low level design is majorly focused on classes and objects within a system.
Okay.
So somewhere if I have to place it, I will place it between the high level design and the actual code.
So high level design is somewhat you can say that the architecture of a complete system.
So let's say here you have component one, component two, component three how they are interacting
with each other okay.
So it's a overall architecture of a system.
Actual code is your actual implementation okay.
So low level design is between it.
So low level design it says that for component one, we are double clicking it.
And if we see, we are seeing what all classes and objects present into that, how they are interacting
with each other and that ultimately get converted into a actual code.
Okay, so that's why it somewhere placed between the high level design and the actual code.
So the purpose of low level design is to write clean code.
Okay.
So that's why it is very important I always says that hey writing a code is not difficult.
High level design and low level design coming up with the design.
Proper design is more important because with that design we can easily write the code.
Okay, nowadays even the AI can write the code, but this design is very important.
Okay, so the main purpose of low level design is to write a clean code.
Code should be flexible and maintainable, and code should be easy to test.
Okay, so there could be many, but according to me, these three are very important are features which
should be present into a good low level design.
Okay, so if we see our categories of low level design it is generally divided into three.
That is creational structural and behavioral.
So creational is like which controls the object creation.
So here the categories of a pattern right.
So there are so many patterns already present okay.
So all this pattern is solving one specific problem.
You can say that so that we don't have to reinvent the wheel okay.
So there is certain problem okay.
And there is certain pattern already solving it okay.
So we have to understand those patterns which already exists, and those pattern falls into one of these
category.
Okay.
So we have sometime what happened is like I'll just tell you understanding of the pattern is not mandatory
okay.
So for example you are given a question that okay you have to design parking lot, let's say.
And it is not mandatory that you should know the pattern.
Maybe you encounter some problem that okay I need this kind of scenario, I need this and you are automatically
or yourself finding out the solution.
So you are coming up with the classes are and how they are interacting.
Okay.
So you might be doing the same thing.
Which pattern there is already a pattern exist for it.
Okay, so what I'm trying to say is that knowing the pattern is not mandatory, but it's you can say
that helpful when we encounter a problem.
And that problem is already solved through a particular pattern, so that we don't have to reinvent
the same thing.
Okay, this is a problem now how to solve it.
And now we are trying to come up with okay, this should be the classes.
This should be the relationship.
And now it is solving.
We already have a pattern for that okay.
So there are uh like so many patterns uh, we will cover.
Right.
We have already covered and I will share it here.
So here the first category is Creational.
So it controls the object creation okay.
So we have different objects okay.
How this object gonna be created.
So the creational patterns controls it like singleton pattern.
Singleton pattern means no matter how many times the caller are invoking hey, give me an object.
Give me an object.
Only one object is created and that would be shared to all.
So only one copy of an object exists.
Okay.
So it falls into the category of creational.
I am controlling how the object need to be created.
Similarly, we have builder factory abstract factory.
Object pool prototype.
These are different patterns which falls into Creational and these all controls how object need to be
created.
For example builder it controls that.
Okay.
The complete object need to be created in step by step.
Small small small.
Small steps.
Just keep on creating the objects into different steps.
Okay.
In further video you will learn about these.
Okay.
So but this is a very high level that what this category is.
The second category is structural.
Structural says that how different classes and objects are arranged together so that the larger problem
can be solved in most flexible way.
For example, The larger problem is you have to develop a car, just for example, and now say that
you have different different classes or objects.
Let's say one object is wheel, another object is engine, another object is let's say, uh, certain
uh, headlights.
Okay.
And another object is steering.
There have so many objects.
Okay.
Now how these objects are arranged so that the bigger problem is solved.
That's what structural category says.
So there are so many patterns like decorator, proxy, composite adapter, bridge, facade and flyweight.
These all falls into the category of structural pattern.
Okay, because there are more concerned about how the objects are arranged together.
So consider it as a skeleton.
So we have created a skeleton okay.
So these are all the classes and objects.
And this is how all are arranged.
So consider this as we have created a skeleton okay.
So they are arranged in such a way that the larger problem is resolved.
Then the third category is behavioral.
It focuses on how different objects communicate or interact with each other.
So if in other word I would I would have to say I would say that the structural pattern will create
the skeleton of the system.
You have different classes, you have different objects and how they are arranged, but how that skeleton
behaves, the coordination among them, the responsibility, the interaction is all guided by behavioral
pattern.
Understand with this simple example that you have only three classes okay.
Class one, class two, class three.
So now class two has to interact with class three.
So what?
So whether it has to call directly to class three or let's say that it need to be like here, class
one, class two, class three.
So class two goes to it's another class.
Hey pass it to class three and then it goes to the class three okay.
So here it has an orchestrator.
So there are different ways of coordination or communication.
Or you can say that interaction.
So that is guided by behavioral.
What should be the behavior of the skeleton which you have developed okay.
So there are so many patterns which belongs to this category okay.
So that is clear.
So this is something very important in the sense uh but there is nothing like we have to spend so much
time understanding this because you will ultimately get to learn more about it when you go through each
and every, uh, design pattern individually.
Okay.
Now another thing where most confusion comes is has a and is a relationship.
Okay.
And also I will tell you my way of remembering it.
Uh, so but first let's see is a relationship is nothing but an inheritance okay.
So here let's say you have a vehicle and there are two child classes two Wheeler and four Wheeler.
So it is generally represented as two Wheeler is a vehicle four Wheeler is a vehicle okay.
So this is a child class.
This is also a child class.
This is a parent class.
So it is an inheritance.
So two Wheeler is a vehicle four Wheeler is a vehicle.
Similarly let's say you have employee and then you have CEO.
CEO is a employee.
You have a manager.
Manager is a employee okay.
So it represents inheritance.
Now let's come to Hazar.
a has a means.
There is a link between two objects.
Okay.
And you can say that generally normal has a means association.
Association means link between two objects like house has rooms.
Library has books.
School has a students.
So there is a link between two objects okay.
So this is known as association.
And it is generally represented like this.
Okay one more thing.
This association has two parts.
Aggregation and composition.
So here you can say that this association has two parts.
One is aggregation which is weak relationship.
Another is composition which is strong relationship okay.
So association is generally represented as like this which is nothing but a has a relationship okay.
And if we go more specific.
Hey, what kind of association is this?
Is it a week?
Is it a strong.
Then we have to focus more on aggregation and composition.
Let's focus on aggregation.
Weak relationship.
Existence of one object is not depend on another.
For example, library has books.
Okay, so here, if you see that we have one object library another, we have books.
So in general library has books.
So it has a relationship library has books.
But if you want to go one level more deeper is it a strong relationship or weak relationship.
So just see that hey can a book object exist even if the library object is destroyed or if library destroyed,
can book exists?
Yes, both can exist independently.
Their existence is not dependent on each other.
So that's where it is known as weak relationship.
Existence of one object is not dependent on another.
Okay.
And this is represented as like this a hollow diamond and then a line okay.
So library has books now.
Also one more thing is that generally it is like this.
So you have a class library and you have a list of books.
But here it do not manage books.
It do not add books or it do not delete books or it do not.
You can say that update something, it do not manage it, it only knows about it.
Library has books, but it don't manage it because it's a weak relationship.
Even if library is broken or object is gone, books still will exist.
Okay, books can still be added, newly books can still be deleted.
Okay, so it's independent of library.
So library is not responsible for adding a book, deleting a book and all.
It just knows about it.
In contrast, like we have a composition, the composition like existence of one object is depend on
another.
House has rooms.
If house gone, room is gone.
Two room cannot exist independently.
It depend on house and that's why it is shown like this.
So you have a filled total filled diamond and then a line.
So house has rooms.
But this is a strong relationship.
That's why it is shown like this a filled diamond and the line and if you have to go a code like this,
you will see a class house.
And it has a list of rooms.
It knows about rooms.
But here the difference is that this house class is also responsible for, let's say, creating room
objects.
Also, because rooms existence depends on the house, so house should managing it.
Okay, so that is clear right now.
I'll tell you my way of uh doing this UML and also in the further videos when you are go through it
in, you will see that.
Notice that see in my view UML is for us okay.
So generally LD round we have machine coding.
And then we have like 145 or 2 40 minutes round 40 to 45 minutes round.
So machine coding is generally uh like 1 to 2 hour mostly I think mostly two hours.
Okay.
So here you need complete code, full code.
And in 40 to 45 minutes round generally mostly they also expecting the code sometime not fully.
See, I am all telling you based on my experience I might be wrong.
Okay, so I am telling you from my experience, based on the so many rounds I have given, I have taken
on that experience.
I am saying code is required in this round 40 45 minutes interview also, but sometime it is not expect
like you fully functional and also many companies will not provide you a code where you can create a
UML like this.
Okay, but the thing is, you can't code until you don't know what all classes you need to create.
What's the relationship between them?
What are is the child classes?
What are the parent classes okay.
Which has a relationship.
Is the relationship like all okay.
So you need to know the UML.
But the thing is let's say if 40 45 minutes round, if the interviewer is expecting a code, definitely
we should not spend much time like only ten 15 minutes.
We should be only spending on UML because we have to code.
Also because if we don't code, then there is a high chance that interviewer will not select us.
Okay, this is again based on my experience.
I'm telling you.
So instead of like remembering, okay, connection should be like this or it should be full diamond
like this always go with.
I always go with.
Like arrow has a relationship.
Arrow is a relationship.
So it's always clear like it is because mostly for me okay.
And I have a clear understanding has a relationship means these objects have a relation is a relationship.
Means is a parent child relationship okay.
So you have to save some time for the coding.
I would say that yes you need to understand the relationship properly okay.
And it's up to you how you want to create a UML, how much time you are getting in the interview.
Okay.
And uh, yeah, I think that's mostly I want to discuss today.
Okay.
So yeah, go with the UML proper UML if you want.
You have time or go with like either shortcut.
I said you like go with an arrow and but put here above is a and has a relationship okay okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
