Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So in the interface or topic this is the last topic functional interface and lambda expression.
This is a Java eight feature and asked a lot in the interview.
Right.
So this is very very important.
Just a heads up okay.
So now let's start with this.
Let's see what we are going to cover today.
What is functional interface.
What is lambda expression.
How to use functional interface with lambda expression.
Advantages of functional interface.
And this is one of the use case because you know that interface can do a nesting from another.
Not nesting.
The function interface can extend from another interface.
So what are the different use cases can come okay.
So now let's start with what is functional interface.
So if an interface contains only one abstract method then it is known as functional interface.
You know that whenever we create an interface, right?
And if we don't define anything by default, what it is, it is public and abstract, right?
Even if you don't write into an interface, then you know that public and abstract will be added automatically,
right?
So this is if you can provide only the signature.
This is known as abstract method.
This is already we are clear.
So if an interface contain only one abstract method, only one abstract method that is known as functional
interface okay.
It is also known as Sam interface Sam is single abstract method.
The same thing.
Single abstract method okay.
So at the functional interface keyword can be used, but it is optional.
So here if you see that I have created an interface bird and created one abstract method, I haven't
written abstract.
You know that interface.
It will be added.
Public abstract automatically.
So this is an abstract method and I have provided only the signature are right.
So this is an abstract.
So I have used the functional interface keyword.
But this is also equivalent to this.
Also you can you don't have to use at the right functional interface.
This is just an optional.
So this will also be known as functional interface because why it has only one abstract method.
Okay.
But what's the difference.
Like if you put functional interface and if you try to add another.
So now here if you see I have used the functional interface keyword.
Now if you try to add another abstract method you will get a compilation error.
See okay.
So functional interface annotation or keyword force you restrict you that you cannot add another abstract
method.
But if you don't use at the functional keyword, if you have only one abstract method, it would be
known as functional interface, but it will not force you.
If you want to add another, you can add it.
Get height then it will not be a functional interface then because now it has two abstract methods.
Okay.
So you know right.
Why functional interface keyword you can use when you have to restrict that.
No other abstract method can be added okay.
Just see this also this example.
So I have put an add functional interface keyword and created one interface board.
And this is my one abstract method.
This is my one abstract method.
Now see this.
What definition says that functional interface contains?
Only one abstract method means you can have other methods like default.
So I can have a default method which has the implementation.
So only one abstract method is there.
I can have the default method.
I can have a static method which has and even the object class method.
So you.
I have already told you in the class topic that each class right is the child of object class.
So in object class has certain method like uh two string equal uh I think hash code.
So these are the methods which are present into object class.
So these methods are not considered as an abstract here.
If you see that see this example.
Normal uh not functional interface.
Just wanted to not show a normal.
Let's say I have created an interface test interface.
And I have defined a method two string.
Right.
This is similar to uh, what we have into an object class.
Right?
Two string.
Also the same is present.
The same.
It would be by default public.
So public string two string method definition is present here.
Now if you create a class which implements this interface, now you see that you don't have to provide
its definition, you don't have to provide it definition.
Why?
Because you know that each class by default extends from the object class itself.
Okay.
So generally that's why we said that.
So in the interface if you define any object class methods you don't have to provide the implementation
for it.
It's not required okay.
So this was just a normal interface here.
If you see that I have created a class which is extended this interface and see no error, I haven't
even implemented this.
Why?
Because this class by default extends this object class and definition is already provided here okay.
So in the functional interface you can have only one abstract method.
But you can have default method.
You can have static method, or you can even have the methods which are present into an object class.
Okay, so these are all allowed.
So this is still a functional interface because it has only one abstract method, even though it has
other methods like default static or objects.
So in functional interface only one abstract method is allowed.
But we can have other methods like default, static or methods inherited from the object class.
Okay.
So this is clear.
So this is what known as functional interface.
Okay.
So this is clear what is functional interface.
Interface which has only one abstract method.
But you can have default static and other methods also.
But only one abstract should be there.
Now the question comes is here.
Then what is lambda expression and why.
It's always comes whenever we discuss about functional interface how they are both related to each other.
This thing should come to a mind, right?
Let me explain you with this.
Uh, just don't see this now.
Let me first explain this.
This.
So what are the different ways to implement the functional interface?
Or you can say the normal interface.
Right.
So first way, as we already know using implements keyword.
So now let's say I have created a functional interface.
It's a very basic interface board and has one abstract method called can fly.
So you know that you we can create one class.
Let's say for the bird I have created one class eagle.
I have implemented this interface using the implement keyword.
Right.
So now it has to provide the definition of this can fly.
So it provided the definition of this.
So this is one of the way.
So now I can create an object of eagle, right?
So new Eagle, I have created an object of eagle, and the object reference is stored by the the bird
interface.
But this is only just a reference.
And you can call this method.
This is we have already seen right.
This is very basic.
So this is one of the way you can implement the functional interface.
Like whatever the method you have use the implement and do it.
What is the second way.
So this was the first way.
What is the second way.
Second way is using anonymous class.
If you have watched the class uh class topic video, I have explained what is anonymous class, right?
A class without a name is called anonymous class.
So let's say this is the interface.
Functional interface I have interface bird same one abstract method.
Right.
And in the main method without even creating class implement and all I can create an anonymous.
This thing so bird an object right?
It will hold the reference of the object which will create.
Now how you will create an anonymous class.
So new bird and provide the implementation here.
Right.
So provide the implementation here.
Override this method can fly and provide this the complete implementation.
So new bird and then the block starts block end here and semicolon.
And within this you have whatever the method you have you have to provide its definition.
Right.
And so this eagle object which holds the reference of the whatever the new internal.
So internally it will create a class, implement it.
But it's an anonymous.
In the example I showed you that it will create some with random name.
Which compiler decides right the name.
So it's an that's why it's known as anonymous class.
So internally what it's doing is nothing but the same.
It will create one class with its own name and implement this bird.
Then write a method.
This implement this method and using this eagle object you can access.
This can fly vertical or not okay.
So this is we have already seen that how you can implement the anonymous.
This is known as anonymous class right.
So we have already covered that one.
So if you are totally not recalling it so I will suggest that please check what is anonymous class.
Because there we have explained in depth like internally what it does.
It create a new class itself with the name which is decided by the compiler.
But this is the way through anonymous.
Now what is the third way?
So third way is using lambda expression.
So now you know that why While lambda expression is always comes into the picture when we always talk
about the functional interface.
So it's a way of implementing the interface.
Lambda expression is a way to implement the functional interface.
One way is using implement.
Second way is using anonymous.
Third way is now Lambda in Java eight.
Right now you say that hey like why we need lambda expression to implement when we have already two
ways to implement our interface.
So notice one thing in this two.
So let's say this anonymous class.
So here you have to implement this method an interface which has only one abstract method only one right.
So here if you see there are too much verbose.
So only this thing, this line is your.
Which is you required rest is all Java verbose like create a new this block start put override, put
a method can fly and then do this.
So here if you see that in the with the help of lambda expression.
The main intention here is to reduce this verbose right.
So that's why they have used with the functional interface.
Because in functional interface we know that there would be only one only one abstract method.
So why we need to provide this method name.
Right.
Because we know that functional interface will have only one abstract method.
So there is no need to provide the like which method you want to override it, so that it would be only
for the one abstract method.
So it tried to reduce the verbose.
So now let's see how the lambda expression can be used.
So the same thing I have a functional interface basic and the can fly.
One abstract method.
Then the main method.
So instead of anonymous, now I am using a lambda expression.
See how so bird.
And this will holds the reference of the object.
Okay now here if you see that this is what lambda expression is.
So this is you can say that generally the arrow operator or generally the lambda operator.
Generally we can say arrow operator or lambda operator.
So first is this.
Okay.
If your abstract method does not accept any input parameter then it would be empty.
If it accept any input parameter then you can provide that input parameter.
You don't need to give the name and all that is not even required because lambda expression is you have
only one method, one abstract method in an functional interface, so no need to use the name can fly
and all.
So if your method doesn't accept any input parameter, it would be empty.
If it accepts, provide it over here.
So can fly accept one input parameter that is string.
Well, so I have given one string and it can be one.
What is the name of the value then?
This is the arrow operator which says that okay okay we are doing a lambda.
Implementing the functional interface.
Right.
So this is the lambda operator.
And then you can start the block.
Finish the block semicolon at the end.
And you can just provide the implementation.
What we were giving here.
Okay.
If you have more than one one line right.
If you have only one line then this block also not required.
It would simply work like this.
Uh.
System.out.println.
That's all.
finished.
If you have more than one line, you have to provide the block.
So now you here see that like, lot of verbose has been removed out of this using this lambda expression.
Okay.
So first thing is start this block, provide the arrow operator.
And if it is only one line you don't need this blocks.
If you have more than one line then you need this blocks.
You need to provide this block.
And inside this provide the implementation.
And we can similarly access this like eagle object dot can fly.
So you got it.
What is the use of lambda expression.
Right.
Why it is always used with function interface.
Okay.
So just don't worry about this lambda expression.
Like it will get more clear with the different examples which I'm going to give you.
So now let's see the type of functional interface.
There are four types Right, which is already inbuilt.
You can say that this is already inbuilt, right?
Sometimes you don't have to.
Right.
Function interface.
You can use it.
What is already existing.
So first type is consumer.
So if you see this package Java dot util dot function inside this package you will see this all for
consumer supplier function and predicate.
Okay.
So let's see one by one what is consumer function interface.
So here what would happen is represent an operation that accepts a single input parameter and return
no result.
So it's function interface looks like this.
It has at the functional interface.
Then an interface with name consumer right with the name consumer.
And it's a generic type.
So I think you already know we have already covered generic classes.
Right.
You already know how this has been handled?
Right.
So this is the generic interface.
Right.
But it's then functional means only one abstract would be there.
One abstract method would be there.
So what is the name of the abstract method here except.
Okay.
So what this consumer says that this functional interface, whatever the abstract method it has, it
will accept only one accept a single input parameter, only single input parameter and returns no result.
Returns no result.
Okay.
Let's see.
Supplier.
What supplier says that represent the supplier of the result.
Accept no input parameter but produces a result so very similar to this one I have created a functional
interface supplier.
It is already there in this package okay.
Again it's a generic one means you can return anything string boolean, integer whatever you want right.
So here, if you see that what this definition says that accept no input parameter, so no input parameter
and produces a result.
So it produces the result.
Okay.
Now let's see one by one I think you got the gist.
Like what is the types of functional interface like.
So consumer we already know that this functional interface already exist and which accept one input
parameter but returns no output okay.
And how you can use it.
So let's say I have created one main class main method.
Right.
And I have creating a variable reference where a object reference where I will store the object whatever
it's going to create.
Right.
And in this one I want to let's say pass integer.
So I am passing an integer one right.
So it accept one parameter right.
So I it's a generic right.
So either you can pass integer or string boolean whatever you wanted.
So I am implementing it with an integer.
So it accepts one input parameter.
So this is not empty.
I am passing one integer variable here.
Okay then arrow.
That means it's a lambda expression.
And we are implementing the function interface.
And I have more than one line.
So I am using the block.
Block start block and semicolon.
And inside this you can do anything.
You don't have to return anything.
You just process it.
So I'm getting a value.
So I'm just processing it.
Hey value is greater than ten.
I'm just putting a print logging.
Do something.
Okay.
So some processing.
And whatever the object's reference, it hold logging object.
You can call this accept method.
Right.
And you pass the value 11.
So it will internally invoke this one.
It will pass 11 here, 11 greater than ten.
It will print lodging.
Right.
Very, very similar to anonymous, but only thing is certain.
Verbose has been reduced similarly when to use supplier.
Now if you you can use supplier when you don't want to pass any input parameter, but you want to get
certain out of it.
Okay.
So now let's see here I am passing.
So this is the function interface.
Now I am implementing supplier.
This is my object reference.
And this is the generic.
So I have to tell like what type of whether string integer or any.
I have to give the type okay.
So here I have given the type.
Now here.
Is it accepting anything.
No.
So that's why I have created an empty one.
And I don't want to create a block.
I have only one line.
So here if you see that I haven't started or ended the block, I just simply this is the data I am returning,
so it will simply return it.
Okay.
And this is very equivalent to this what we have seen till now.
Supplier.
What is the generic type A string.
This is the object reference.
No input.
So it is just like this arrow parameter lambda parameter.
You can even start the block and the block even for one line also.
But now you can like this return.
This is the data I am returning.
Right.
So this is the two way for one line.
You don't need a block and this don't have to write a return.
It will simply return.
But when you're creating a block it would be like a normal.
You have to return this like this way right.
And how you can call whatever this object reference you have created dot get.
So this is supplier no input but there is a return.
Similarly, there is a function.
Function says that except one argument parameter and produces a result.
So means it accepts.
Also it returns also.
Okay, so the function interface is looks like this.
It's a function interface.
Only one abstract method.
And then the generic type it accepts two types t and r.
So t is the your argument.
What type it is going to be R is your return type.
So see how I am implementing function this one.
So it accepts two generic types.
So I pass integer.
So this would be your integer argument.
It will accept return type would be of string okay.
And the object reference.
Now it accepts one parameter.
So you have to provide the integer.
So integer certain data okay.
Then argument starts.
Uh lambda expression starts, provide the implementation and you can process it like so.
Whatever the number I'm getting, I'm just converting it to a string.
So num dot two string and return this output.
So what I'm returning I'm returning a string.
Okay.
So you can use this functional interface whenever you accept and return also.
So there is one more type of predicate.
Predicate is like accept but always return boolean accept but always return boolean.
Represent function that accept one argument and returns the boolean.
Okay, so I think now can you implement it without even looking right.
Uh, it's a very simple right.
So pause it here.
Just try to implement this.
Right.
So here it accept an integer.
So you it would be like integer Any value implemented.
Lambda expression.
Let's say if you have more than one line, it block, start block and semicolon.
Now whatever you have processed it and it should return the boolean ultimately true or false whatever
it would be.
So predicate are whatever the type generic.
So let's say I whatever the input parameter, let's say I want to pass the integer is even or not.
So I am passing one argument here.
Now lambda expression start my block.
I'm just checking whether, whatever the value I have entered, is it an integer or not.
So a basic method, if it's a equals to equals to zero, return true, else false.
That's all okay.
And how you can call it is even whatever the object reference you have created called dot test method.
Right.
So you know right why we are not writing test here.
That's what lambda expression resolve internally does.
It knows that this functional interface has only one abstract method.
We don't have to write test over here.
It is very, very similar to anonymous only very very similar to anonymous only.
But in anonymous we have to provide the method name.
But lambda expression says that I work only on functional interface, I work only lambda expression
can only work with functional interface.
Functional interface has only one abstract method.
So that's where we don't have to provide the method name.
Otherwise it is very very similar to anonymous implementation.
You got this one.
So these are the four types consumer supplier function predicate right.
So if you think that apart from this four you have certain other requirement then you can write your
own functional interface.
But if you think that your requirement gets satisfied with this input or return type, you can use already
existing whatever it is available.
Okay.
If you think that.
No, no, I have a total different requirement.
I have 4 or 5 parameters to be entered and need to return or not return.
So then you can write your own function interface.
Okay.
Now let's see.
You know that interface can extend each other.
So we just need to see that how to handle that use case.
So let's say use case one functional interface.
Extended non functional interface.
So this is my non-functional interface.
Basic living thing interface.
It has only one abstract method can breathe.
It is extended by a functional interface interface.
Bird extends living thing.
And it also put one abstract method.
So now here if you see that one abstract method here one abstract method is here.
So generally all the parent abstract method is also carry forward.
Right.
So this that's why it show compilation error because functional interface should have only one abstract
method.
But because of this extend any abstract method which is present into the parent interface that also
get added to here.
So that's why it's a compilation error.
This is wrong but this is right.
So now let's say interface has living thing has default right.
And now I have a functional interface which extends this living thing.
This works fine because it has only one abstract method.
This is nothing but a default.
So it can have a default method okay.
Second use case interface extending functional interface.
So now I have a functional interface.
First living thing which is a functional interface means only one abstract method should be there.
It has only one abstract method.
Now I have an interface, but it is not a functional interface.
It is a normal interface.
It extends living thing.
It also have one abstract method, but since it extends, this abstract also comes to it.
But this is fine because since we haven't put at the functional interface above bird, so we are not
restricting that, you should have only one abstract method.
So you have one, and one is coming from your parent extend.
So even though you can have two but now you are not a functional interface right.
So this will work fine because this is we haven't put the at the rate keyword so it can have more than
one abstract method.
So this will work fine.
Third use case functional interface.
Extending other functional interface.
So see this I have a functional interface living thing have one abstract method.
I have another functional interface.
But extending from this it is also have another abstract method.
See?
It has can breathe.
It has can fly.
Different method.
So means this is one abstract method for this one.
And from parent also this is also coming to it.
So it has two abstract method which is wrong.
But see this one if both the functional interface.
So this is your parent living thing.
This is your child.
This extends the living thing if both have the same method.
Public boolean can breathe public or sorry.
Yeah by default is public only public boolean can breathe.
Both has the same method right?
Then this is allowed.
This is just like you overrided it, right?
So this is allowed but different is not allowed even when the same signature is allowed and how you
can implement it.
I think you can do it right.
So now let's say bird interface I have to implement.
So you have to create a bird reference object.
Any object where you will hold it.
It is taking empty.
So empty I don't have to pass the parameter Lambda expression.
Start can breathe returns boolean.
Right.
So let's say I don't have to write a block, I just need to return true.
So just put true finish right.
And with this object you can call this method can breathe object dot can breathe right.
So I have this object is my eagle Lambda.
This is start no input parameter lambda expression start simply returns true can breathe.
So this is clear right.
So this is so generally when the two end functional interface or one is extended from other.
If they both have the same method then there is no issue because you can easily implement it will override
it.
But if it is different then it's an issue.
So this is pretty much of our functional interface and lambda expression.
I think you are just practice it once and I think you should be now clear, like why lambda expression
is always, always comes and used with functional interface.
Because one simple answer before we going Lambda expression is a way to implement a functional interface.
It is minimizing the verbose which is there in the, let's say in the previous ways.
You don't have to because functional interface only has one method abstract method.
It don't have to write a method name and all.
So that's how it is able to reduce the verbose write.
Okay guys.
So just try to implement it once and see.
Is this all getting properly clear to you and any doubt?
Please feel free to ping me in the comment.
Okay guys, see you.
Bye.