Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today in Spring Boot microservice video we are going to set up two microservices.
And the first thing we will do is communicate with each other.
Right.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So this would be our goal setting up of two microservice order service and product service which would
be running on different port number.
Right.
So order service we will make it run on 8081 and product service 8082.
And how two microservices can communicate with each other.
This is our goal, right?
It's not very simple.
There are different ways.
And in spring microservices or spring cloud what is the recommended way of approach.
So we have to see that.
So let's start.
Setup of two microservices.
The first one is order service.
As we have already know how to set up a any spring boot project.
We have already covered so many topics.
So we know that how to make use of spring initializer.
So here I am creating one order service.
Right.
Just creating with spring web for now.
Not adding spring cloud, just a spring web for now.
Similarly, I'm setting up one product service again, very very basic project.
For now we are starting with scratch, like setting up very basic project itself Spring Web.
So now I have this two projects now in the order service in its Application.properties.
I have put a port number 8081 right.
And when I started it this order service is started on port number 8081.
Similarly, whatever the project which got which we have downloaded from here, if you open it up and
change in the Application.properties server dot port 8082.
And it started so our product service application going to start on 8082.
Now in our system two applications are running product service and order service on different port number.
Now when two services are running the first thing we have to do is how they can communicate between
each other, right.
This is very very important.
Like you can say that this is the fundamental of microservice okay.
And we have to understand it very clearly.
So there are two different ways synchronous and asynchronous.
So we are going to start with first synchronous communication.
So synchronous communication means client wait for the response from server before continuing.
So now let's say in this case our order service is going to call.
product service.
Okay, so at any point of time it will start the synchronous communication.
So order service will wait for the response of the product service okay.
So you can say that it's a blocking nature.
Blocking in nature okay means thread.
Wait till response is not received.
So synchronous communication types are Rest template Rest client and fink client.
So this is very important.
This is actually which is used in spring cloud okay.
And you know that whenever we are working with microservices we are ultimately have to use Spring Cloud
because it has very well integration with all the other tools like load balancer, service discovery,
Observability, etc..
Okay, so we have to use a spring cloud.
And in spring cloud this communication type is used.
But if you directly jump into the client and understand about it, our base would not be clear.
So to first set up our base we have to understand Rest template and Rest client okay.
Which are the you can say that mode of communication between microservices but without spring cloud.
Without spring cloud okay.
If you are not using spring cloud means if you are not using Eureka server service discovery and all
like all the microservices, which we are going to cover in future, if we are not using Spring Cloud
functionality, then these two are sufficient to communicate between the microservices.
But as I mentioned, whenever we are, because in future we are going to use Spring Cloud for our microservices,
and this is the communication we have to use.
But to understand it better, we have to understand these two.
Then only our base would be clear how Finland is also working, because internally it might be using
the same flow only.
So let's start here.
In this we see a sample http get request call.
So this is a very very basic Get request.
So what request contains get call.
So here first we have a Get method like HTTP method which is like get post put delete.
This is my URI.
This part is my URI right.
Uh what is the path which you are hitting?
So in the product service which I am trying to hit here, this is the API actually.
Okay.
This is the HTTP protocol.
So we have different HTTP protocol Two three.
So these are the protocol version which we are using for the HTTP host, like the target host where
our product services like.
So this is the port number URL and port number.
User agent is nothing but a client or tool which is used to make the request.
So now let's say I am using curl URL to make or initiate an endpoint.
If you are using postman.
So that agent would be written like which tool you are using to actually invoke the request except format
in which client want response.
Okay, so if you want a server that hey, return me the response in the application JSON format, then
you have to add this.
So this is a very, very basic HTTP request call okay.
And this is how very very basic HTTP post request call looks like.
So I'm just telling you that so that we are in a same page.
Right?
When we are calling HTTP method, we know what it is when we are saying protocol.
What protocol URI, what is the URI okay.
When we are saying target host?
Because in future we are going to use lot of word host.
So host means this your URL and port number okay.
So how does HTTP post request calls look like.
Again same HTTP method URI protocol your target host agent.
Except this is all same.
But what extra.
So we have content type.
So in the post we also have a body like request object right.
What we have to send.
So this content type tells request body which I am going to send you is JSON okay.
And the content length tell the number of bytes in the request body.
What is the length of it?
Bytes and bytes.
And then this is the actual body.
Or you can say that actual data like let's say in the Post request we are generally creating a new object.
So a new product object which I have just for example.
So I'm sending the body here.
So this is how HTTP post requests call look like.
And let's see how the response call look like a very basic very very important because a lot of things
we are going to cover which.
Very very tightly coupled with the response call like Keepalive I will tell you.
So again here, if you see we have content type because now we are talking from the perspective of response
like from the server perspective.
So content type is that tells client to expect JSON response.
Content length is number of bites and response body.
Okay.
This is your response body.
Like what server is sending in the JSON format.
Now here if you see these two things very very important connection keep alive and keep alive.
Timeout equals to five max equals to 50.
Till now what we know is that.
HTTP and WebSocket.
Till now what we know is that HTTP first create a connection right.
First set up a connection.
After that it send a request.
Then it will send a response.
And after that it terminates the connection.
But in the WebSocket let's say you have a request like again it build a connection because it's also
based on TCP.
So it is built the connection request response.
But WebSocket is persistent in nature, right?
Persistence in nature means that connection do not terminate.
And also it is bidirectional.
Okay, but what my point here trying to say is that connection is not terminated.
WebSocket is persistent in nature.
And what we know is that for HTTP, every time a connection is made after request and response, the
connection get terminated.
But this was the behavior of 1.0 HTTP protocol version 1.0.
In 1.1, the default behavior is this keep alive.
Connection is keep alive is set.
What does keep alive means.
So by default, connection is set to keep alive in HTTP 1.1.
In HTTP 1.0, by default.
Connection is set to close whenever connection is set to hear close.
So what would happen here is this behavior will follow after connection request response and after that
connection get closed.
But in 1.1 which is the default is connection is keep alive.
So what will happen is it will not close the connection.
As soon as possible you can say that it will not close the connection after response.
It will close the connection based on this configuration.
So first is timeout.
Timeout five means close the TCP connection.
If it's idle for five, second and max equals to 50 means tell.
The maximum number of requests can be sent over the same TCP connection.
So you are saying that now our HTTP protocol is also persistent Means it does not get closed just after
server.
Send the response in 1.1.
Keepalive is set.
And with that, these two configuration comes into the picture where.
Timeout.
Tells that close it if it is idle for this much amount of time.
And this tells that on a single TCP connection this is the maximum number of requests can be processed.
Maximum number of requests can be sent over the same TCP connection.
Okay.
So this is one flow when keepalive is set.
So here if you see first three way handshake happen between the client and server.
This is where TCP connection build up.
Okay.
After that client send a HTTP request which I already showed you how the HTTP request looks like.
Now the client server respond with the HTTP response.
But here, if you see that connection is not closed, the client may reuse the same TCP connection again,
because in the response Keep-alive connection is used.
Okay.
So till this configuration is fulfilled you can reuse the connection.
So same TCP connection can be used for multiple HTTP requests.
And once it is all done either timeout happened or maximum limit reached.
The four way termination to close the TCP connection happen.
So TCP termination happen of this connection okay.
And you know that when the connection is set to close in the response when the connection is set to
close after response the connection get closed, okay.
You can't use the same connection again.
That's the difference.
So we will see that because our code flows differs when this keepalive is set.
I will show you how.
Okay, but by this point of time, we should be clear how our request call looks like, how our post
request looks like response, and what is the purpose of Keepalive?
Okay, now let's first see I told you about three, right?
Rest template.
Rest client.
And the feign client.
So these are all used in spring boot.
So spring boot you can say that it's a layer or framework which hides certain functionality from us
which make things little bit easy for us.
But I will say that, like, what if we try to invoke the Rest endpoint without using this spring boot
itself first.
Okay, what if we try to use it with plain Java?
Because even if we use Rest template, because since it's a spring communication type, it might abstract
something from us, which we don't know internally.
It might be using some behavior which is used in plain Java.
So we first need to understand how if we are not using spring boot, if we want to just communicate
with two microservice using plain Java, how we can do that?
Because we ultimately know that spring boot, let's say rest template I'm using internally.
It might be using that only.
Okay.
So that's the first thing we will see.
So here if you see the order service I am writing one controller I am writing one rest controller.
This is the end point which I am exposing.
Similarly for product service I am writing one controller slash product and this is the endpoint.
Okay, so my purpose is that order service has to invoke this API of the product service, this endpoint
slash product slash ID.
And it will simply return this product fetch with ID whatever the id I am just printing for.
Very very simple just returning.
Whenever this get method get invoked, simply return this.
Now from order service I have to invoke this.
Okay so I have written this method get order okay.
So whenever this endpoint get invoked from here I am trying to invoke this.
But now I am using plain Java no spring boot rest template.
Let's see what all thing we have to do.
So this is the first thing we have to create a http url connection object okay http url connection object.
Consider this as an envelope, like where we define what is our HTTP method get what is our content
type JSON application slash JSON.
What is the type?
Timeout right.
Connection timeout read timeout.
So this all things we have to specify.
So consider this as an envelope where we specify what is the URL.
Also like URL where what exactly has to be invoked okay.
So provide me the address.
So all these things has to be first created.
So how we create we create a first object of URL okay.
Provide the URL which we have to hit.
So I provided a URL here okay.
Now I am opening a connection open connection.
So at this point of time it is not creating any.
So this is my client.
This is my server.
So when I say that open connection it is not creating an HTTP connection now.
No.
So currently it is just creating a http url connection object at this point of time.
And it set header properly.
Like if you want to set body, just set the body right and the URL we have set.
Okay.
So everything we have set till now the connection timeout timeout connection timeout means now when
your client is trying to connect with server the first TCP connection while building how much time client
should wait, how much time within how much time this connection should get built up.
If it is taking more time then request should get failed and the second one is read timeout.
Read timeout means after the connection is built up.
After TCP connection is built up, the client sends a request.
Now client is.
I told you it's a blocking nature, right?
So client is waiting for the response from the server.
So how much time client can wait for the response okay.
So that's why read timeout okay.
How much time client can wait for the response from the server.
So this is all we can set into this object http url connection object.
Now this is the second part okay.
So now we have to create a TCP connection.
So TCP connection can generally build when out of one of these three things are used either you call
connect http URL connection or http URL connection dot connect.
Either this time a TCP connection is built up, TCP connection got built up means three way handshake
happens or if you call get input stream or get response code which internally calls connect only.
Okay.
So it initiate the TCP connection at this point of time.
So I am directly reading uh doing http url connection dot get input stream.
So internally it will first do connect for me.
So it will first create TCP connect.
Then it will send a request for me because request is also present in http URL connection.
And that get input stream.
So it will give me an input stream where response is present.
So it will also get a response and it will give me an input stream.
Now from this input stream I have to read the response.
That's all.
So now I am reading the response from the input stream and I'm printing.
Response is.
Whatever the string which is returned.
So it return this product fetch with id this.
So that's what it printed.
The response is product fetched with ID this one.
Okay.
So this is the second part.
Second part is like we actual TCP connection is made either one of this three.
And since I am using input stream it automatically do a connection.
And then internally it send the request get the response and give me the input stream.
And from that input stream I read the response and parse it like how I want it.
If I want to parse it as a string, I just use a stringbuilder.
If you want to parse it as an object, you can create an object and do a proper mapping.
Once that's done, this is.
The third part is very, very important.
See that I am closing the connection.
Disconnect.
Okay.
So here if you see this is the code of the disconnect.
What it does.
It says that if input stream is not fully read.
So whatever the response which you get, if there is some issue with that, some exception you got and
this input stream is not read properly.
HTTP client or closed server?
Close the TCP socket.
Close the TCP connection.
So HTTP client.
So this TCP connection right.
In in Java the wrapper around this TCP connection is known as HTTP client.
Okay.
So we are actually closing it.
If you go inside this http url connection dot disconnect.
So internally if it response is not properly read it close the TCP connection.
If response is properly done it just say finish it.
Do not close it.
Why?
Because I told you that in 1.1, keep alive is set to true.
Where?
Here.
Keep alive is set to true.
So there.
What happen is there is something.
A cache is maintained.
Okay.
The cache we have the key and value key is your.
You can say that.
Your host URL or port number.
Okay.
This is your key URL and port number.
Okay.
And value is your HTTP client object HTTP client is wrapper around TCP connection.
So you can say that this is actually a TCP connection.
So for one URL and port number you can say that for one target host.
The TCP client HTTP client object or TCP connection is stored against it.
So whenever we did this.
So whenever first we reuse it.
So whenever we do.
Dot connect.
Right.
So it will not directly just create a new HTTP client object for us.
Because this is where actually TCP connection is made TCP connection.
You can say that HTTP client is a wrapper around it.
So HTTP client object is actually created.
So when we do dot connect it's not like it blindly creates a new HTTP client object.
No it first check the cache it first check the cache.
If cache has this key whatever the this localhost 8082.
Right.
This is the host and the URL and the port number.
Right.
So if this key is there it will reuse the HTTP client object means it is trying to reuse it and just
change it to let's say in use flag is set to true.
In use this.
This connection is currently in use.
As soon as we did HTTP finished, we are returning to this cache back again, making it like in use.
No false.
Now it is not in use.
So this HTTP connection stay valid till this configuration.
As I showed you above this timeout and Max okay.
And ultimately so here this is the third step I am doing.
So this is our plain Java.
Looks like if you want to communicate between two microservices and here if you see that now I am hitting
this API order one.
So I'm hitting this API.
So what it will do is it will try to communicate it.
So order calls successfully.
This is the last order call successfully.
And here I am printing response right in the log System.out.println.
So here so it calls the product and print what the product.
Return this product fetch with id one.
But you can clearly see the disadvantage of above approach too much boilerplate code.
You have to open a connection.
You have to set a header.
You have to read the response.
You have to close the streams.
Right.
So here, if you see that so many things you are doing, you have to understand about http url connection,
how you setting the headers timeouts, this stream you got right response stream.
You have to read it.
You have to make sure that properly stream is closed.
Right.
So everything you have to parse the response by yourself, everything you have to handle it.
So too much boilerplate code response should be handled manually.
I told you, right?
You are parsing over the stream and you are parsing how you want it.
Like I like, I just simply parse the input stream as like I'm just in the stringbuilder I am taking
it line by line.
Okay, I'm reading a line and just appending it into the stringbuilder.
So I want to parse it as a string.
If you want to parse it or map it to an object, you have to handle it manually.
How?
If server is sending JSON, let's say product name some price, then you want to map it to some object.
Then you have to take care of the mapping properly.
Now this is not a string right?
Limited support for advanced feature connection pooling interceptor filters.
Right.
So that's some of the disadvantage I would say that for the plain Java concept because is that too much
boiler code Like too much.
Like here.
Just to make one connection.
See the amount of code you have written.
Okay, that's where Rest template comes into the picture.
So this is our first spring based communication type.
And we know that spring abstract lot of things for us.
It makes lot of things easy for us.
Okay.
So I would say that it's a legacy way to call Rest API in spring application in spring.
Also it is a legacy because after Rest template Rest client comes into the picture which is the latest
one.
So Rest template.
Sometime when we call Rest template we call it as a legacy way to call rest API in spring application
in spring application.
Right.
So now let's see the same thing.
The same thing.
Order service has to communicate the product service.
If in the rest template I have to do what I have to do, the first thing is We have to create an object
of the rest template.
Okay, so in the App.config configuration I am creating a bin of it.
We already have seen this in depth in previous videos right?
So in the configuration I am creating one bin and I am creating just new rest template object.
That's all simple okay this leave it for now.
This is like or I will come back again.
But for now like I have used this.
So either this or this, you can say that I will come to this.
Here I am setting the timeouts.
We'll come to that.
But let's say that I have not.
I don't want to set timeout for now.
I want default timeout.
Whatever connection timeout, read timeout, write the first thing again.
I just created a simple Rest template object.
Then what?
This is the order API.
I have created the same thing.
From here I would invoke this product API.
I have to invoke this.
So here, if you see whatever the object I have created, I have auto wired it.
So because of this auto wired object is already there present right.
So this object would get auto wired here.
And just I am calling rest template dot get for object pass the URL properly right proper URL, just
pass it.
And what how your response looks like.
So I want my response to be automatically passed in a string.
And ultimately my response I get in is string itself.
So what I have done is again I have created an object of Rest template.
Using that object I invoke get for object method.
In the get for object method, I pass the URI which I want to invoke and what my response looks like
either a string or either some object.
I want to mention it here.
Whatever the response I'm getting, I want to pass it as string.
Spring boot will automatically take care of mapping it.
Whatever the stream's response stream comes in, Spring Boot will automatically map it.
And ultimately I get a response and I am just printing response from product API called from Order Service.
Is this one order called successful?
So now when I hit this API, when I invoke this API order call is successful.
It reached till here.
And if you see the logs response from product API called from order service it print the response actual
it printed this.
So now here, if you see all the boilerplate code which we have written http url connection URL like
stream, you have to take care of response parsing all gone with a single line.
See how easy it become with the rest template?
So what exactly happened inside rest template?
We'll see that.
But here I will show you this.
Another which we have left.
So sometime which we want is like I also want I don't want to use the default connection timeout or
timeout.
I want to set it so we can set it like this.
While the same thing during configuration while I'm creating a.
So here we have to set the factory object.
This is the factory object.
So here while creating a new Rest template object we have to set a factory object simple client HTTP
request factory object.
Right.
So this factory.
ultimately help us to simple client HTTP request factory.
So as from the name clear client HTTP request factory.
So this factory ultimately help us to return the object of client HTTP request.
Right.
Which ultimately kind of where we can set all our URL, your timeouts your post method.
Right.
Ultimately all this.
So generally http url connection internally also has this request.
Okay.
So the same thing.
So I am creating I am using this simple client HTTP request factory which is a default.
You can say that here I haven't used new rest template.
Okay So.
But how?
I will get the request object client http request object.
So internally by default it uses this factory only.
I will show you the flow.
By default it uses this factory only and set the default values okay.
So now if I want to take some control.
So this is how it does.
Like I created a factory object and I set the what is the connection timeout.
What is the read timeout.
And put this factory okay.
So these timeouts are in milliseconds.
So this is just I want to show you here.
Otherwise if you don't want to set the connection timeout timeout you can directly use just new rest
template.
That's all.
But how this exactly happened how it worked internally I just wrote one line object rest template object,
get four object and pass the URI.
And uh, this response type.
And it worked.
The connection is made for what happened internally.
So understand this flow very properly.
If you understand the plain Java flow this would be like exactly the same thing which it does behind
the framework.
So first thing when we call rest template dot get for object what it does it it first invokes create
request.
Okay I told you the default is simple HTTP client request factory.
So it will call a create request method on top of it.
Okay so the request goes to here.
Now what it does is it will create an http url connection object okay.
Earlier in the plain Java we were creating the object http url connection object.
Now it's got hidden inside this.
So this factory is creating an object for us http url connection object.
Now it set request method, connect timeout read timeout whatever.
Here we have like get connect timeout re timeout whatever.
Then what it will return is it will return us a simple HTTP request object.
Set the connection http url connection object inside it and return this object.
It send me the simple HTTP request in return.
So this object internally has this http url connection http url connection object.
This has it.
Okay.
And then http url connection.
You already know that it is a kind of an envelope where we have URI method read timeout connect amount.
Everything Okay.
So now rest template again got this request object.
What it will call is second call execute on this request object.
This request object it calls execute.
So this is the class.
You can go to this class and check this.
It is exactly the same thing you will find.
So it will help you more clear.
You can put some debugger point.
So now if you go to simple client HTTP request object and go to its execute method, what it will do,
it will take out the http url connection object which we have created and calls connection dot connect.
I told you what connection dot connect does is it actually creates the TCP connection.
So it.
But one thing I told you, if you got the flow of plain Java connection right properly, it do not blindly
create an HTTP client which is a wrapper around TCP, is do not blindly create an object of it.
There is some cash involved in it.
Keep alive cash.
I told you in protocol 1.1 HTTP protocol 1.1 keep alive cash is true.
Set so it first internally invokes this keep alive cash class.
So this has two methods get and put.
So first it goes to the Get.
And check if this URL and port number exist whatever we are trying to hit okay.
If yes, then means there is already a HTTP client object.
Or you can say the TCP connection object is present.
So reuse it because if it's there in the cache means it is still alive, means its timeout is not yet
happen, or maximum limit is not yet crossed.
Okay.
But if it is not there.
Right.
So we have to create a new HTTP client object.
Or you can say that new TCP connection object we have to create, and we have to also put it into the
cache.
Okay.
So first what it will do is it will take out the http url connection object and then invoke the connect
which actually creates a TCP connection but it do not create blindly it.
First check the cache.
Now once you have get the HTTP client object which is present inside a connection, it will call get
response code.
I told you that there are three methods like get Inputstream get response code or dot connect.
So dot connect is used to do a TCP connection and get Inputstream and get response code is like where
client send the request, get the response okay response stream it got.
Now it has to do a parsing.
So after that it invoke get response code means it.
Now send the request to the server also and wait for the response.
Okay, so now all the response stream, whatever the response it has got from the client or server.
It's there all in the connection.
That stream would be there.
Okay.
So it's there and it return.
It's set inside simple client HTTP response object and set this URL connection.
This connection which has all this response info right.
It's set inside this response object and returns.
So now I am got simple client HTTP response object.
This has internally http url connection object.
Now I am doing is handling the response and extract data.
So here whatever you have defined like what type you wanted response I want to parse the response as
a string, or let's say some class product class.
Now it does parsing for us automatic parsing.
So it still got a stream.
It read the stream and it will do a parsing.
So it will use some JSON converters possibly.
And once that's done it ultimately closed the reading stream.
Okay.
But here if you notice it do not close the TCP connection.
It is not doing uh HTTP client that close or something.
It not.
So this is our HTTP client.
It's not closing it.
It just closed the stream as soon as the stream is closed.
What happened is the HTTP client object, which is our TCP connection, right.
Which is there in the cache.
Let's say currently it's marked as in use equals to true.
Now that would be false.
Now it is not in use.
It is marked as free.
now.
It can be reused again till its configurations are met properly.
So here, if you see that Rest template does all the things which we were doing it manually in the plain
Java opening a connection, setting all this timeouts calling dot connect internally does it.
So calling internally the request sending the request getting the response.
Parsing it.
Closing the request stream response stream.
But it's all replaced with just one line in spring boot get for object.
This one line this whole frameworks now handling it.
Okay, so what are some of the other methods which are available in Rest template?
I told you this get for object right.
Similarly there is something called get for entity.
So in get for object, whatever the response type you are sending, it returns the response body as
an object.
So here if you see I see product class the return would be product body only.
It will give me the response body only, not the complete response complete response as status headers
everything but this returns me get for object return me only the body the response actual data response.
There is something called get for entity URL and the response type, so it will give me the full response
entity.
The same rest template dot get for entity just the your URI.
Okay, the complete URI and the type which you wanted in the response product dot class.
But the response type is the complete entity okay.
So now in the response you can get the status code.
Also you can get the headers and you can get the body.
Your body would be of type this this.
Okay.
The only difference is that in the first one you get only this body.
Not status, not headers, anything like that.
For the post you have to use this method post for object okay.
So it has your URI the request because in the post you have to pass the request body and the response
type.
Very very simple.
Again, if you see rest template at post for object your URI.
This is my URI which I want to hit.
This is the request body which I want to send because I want to create a new product.
Right?
So I create a new product.
I create one object which has this values.
I send this to the server and my response body would be like this product dot class.
Okay again post for object means it only the response body would be available to you in the response.
It would be direct body, but post for entity means full.
The response type would be response entity.
From there you can get a body.
You can get a status code.
You can read headers.
So some similarly for put we have a URL and the request.
So here if you see send put and no response body is expected in the put, you won't get any response
right because it's only an update.
So this is let's say URL right rest template dot put URL and the updated product whatever you want to
update it right here.
Generally it would have a ID.
Also this ID this id let's say this is the product which you want to update but there is no return type.
Similarly for delete you have to just give the URL the URL.
So here, if you see that you provided the URL and just say that delete and there is no return type.
Okay.
So there are two more methods.
General method which gives you more flexibility.
One is exchange and another is execute.
So exchange if you want to customize the HTTP method according to yourself.
If you want to take control of the header and the body yourself, but want to rely on spring their automatic
conversion response conversion serialization right, then you can go for exchange.
Just see an example here.
I have defined a URL.
Now I want to take a control of the header.
So now I am creating a one header object.
Okay.
In the header I set the content type.
If any other header I want to set let's say authorization header and my token I have to set here All
the header you can set here then body.
So I have created one.
Let's say this is the body.
Some product and name.
And the price I have set now in the HTTP entity I have set both the body and the header.
So now I have full control over my header and my body how I want it.
Right.
And here I am just calling the exchange.
So here pass the URL which you want to hit okay.
Second is HTTP entity object HTTP entity object has two things your body and your header.
Right.
So HTTP entity has two things body and header.
So second is my after HTTP method it's my HTTP entity okay.
And after that response type in the response which you will get from the server.
Its body should be automatically converted to this product or class.
So doing automatic conversion.
Okay.
So the exchange returns you the response entity which means you have the complete header access body
access everything.
Okay.
So this is clearly understood right.
When to use exchange.
Exchange in simple term.
Only use when you want control over HTTP method header body but don't want to do conversion response
conversion serialization and all you want to rely on spring boot.
Then you can use this.
There is one more called execute which says that hey, even the serialization conversion also you take
care of it.
It's like a plain Java how you use to connect it.
Generally it's like the same thing.
We only have to manually do all the things we have to take care of the object like header, body, request,
response, serialization all need to be handled manually, right?
So it provides us complete view of the interface request callback interface and response extractor interface.
So request callback interface if you see it has functional interface.
So we will use lambda expression.
But we have access to client HTTP request object.
So we can modify the request as we want.
Similarly the request response extractor again it's a functional interface which provide us the access
to response object.
Means we can parse the response as we want.
So this is an example like I have already covered in Java the functional interface and the lambda expression.
How to use it.
So you can check in depth there.
So here I am creating a new Rest template object.
First my URL.
Now here.
If you see what is the.
I need an object of this request callback and the response extractor.
So these are functional interface.
So I am using lambda expression.
So means here at this point of time I have access to request.
So what I am doing is request using lambda expression I am writing my functionality here now.
So in the request I am changing the header.
I am adding my body which I wanted right?
And here if you see that I am taking care of serialization now, it's not automatically done.
So whatever the object I have created product, I have to convert it into a bytes and I have to put
this, uh, whatever the body which I have written right, bytes input stream and I have to write it
to this body request body.
Okay.
So I am doing taking care of all the serialization and conversion.
Okay, so this is the request callback.
Nothing but a functional interface which provide access to client HTTP request object, which where
we can add header, add our body.
But also we need to take care of serialization also.
Similarly the response which comes means response extractor.
So we have access to the response client HTTP response.
So here I am using again lambda expression.
So whatever the response I will get.
So this is my input stream.
Whatever the response dot get body stream util dot copy to string I am just copying to string, that's
all.
So my body would be like become a string response extractor.
This one okay.
And this is ultimately where I am invoking execute.
So internally it will do dot connect.
First it will create a TCP connection, and then it will send get response code right, and then have
this request and header properly set into the HTTP client connection object.
Okay.
And then it gets a response.
And then it will do this.
It will run this logic.
Whatever the response it will get it will run.
Then this logic okay.
And if you see print it it will print properly okay.
So in short use exchange again very very important when you only have to worry about headers and body
but internal one level more depth like serialization right.
And the conversion you don't have to worry about it.
You just send like what you wanted.
It automatically does all the parsing, that's all.
But when you want full control, like actually execute, right?
Everybody call internally.
Execute only.
Even if you say exchange put post get all internally call execute only internally right.
So if you want full control then you can use execute.
And you can use.
This is one simple example.
Okay.
So when execute got invoked it do connect.
And then it will try to create a HTTP connection object which will give you an HTTP client request has
this object HTTP client request.
So then it this is get invoked.
Now you have the request.
You update headers and body okay.
After that it makes get response code.
Now once it made response code it got a response.
So after response what it has to do it run this parse like this.
And ultimately you get a response?
Okay.
If you practice this, you will get to know, like, um, very, very easy to understand.
But what are the limitations of this template?
Why we call it as legacy or traditional way of communication in spring application.
So the one of the biggest problem, which I feel is in the rest template, there are so many overloaded
method.
So this method which I have covered write, execute, exchange delete put post post for object, get
for entity, get for object.
These are.
You can say that very very few methods I have covered even for get for object you will see three overloaded
method for get for entity you will find three overloaded methods similarly for this.
Similarly for this.
Similarly for this there are so many overloaded method you get confused and which one to use when.
And also it's very difficult to remember and maintain also.
So this is one of the biggest challenge.
Second is this template was built before the concept like retry, circuit breaker etc..
So yes there is a support present into the rest template, but it's more you can know that more overloaded
methods are there.
That's why I tell you that if you want to use a circuit breaker functionality, you will find one overloaded
method for this.
For this, because you have to support for all any new feature you have to add.
Just see that any new feature you have to add, you have to add for all the flavors get post, put,
delete, exchange.
So means like you have to keep on adding the overloaded methods for each of the new functionality you
introduce.
So it's not user friendly to use and it is not easy to remember.
Not easy to maintain.
So that's why Rest template is in maintenance mode.
No new feature, only bug fixes because nowadays in the HTTP request itself, there are so many new
new features coming like this functionality, this functionality like filtering, interceptor functionality.
So means they are not keep on appending new functionalities here now.
That's where the rest client comes into the picture.
Okay, so we will cover rest client into the next video.
But in short it's follow a builder style API.
Or we can always say that fluent API like there is no overloaded.
You can say that methods.
We don't have to remember it just like get put post.
That's all.
If you have to do a get get method no matter get for entity, get for object doesn't it provide has
the complete functionality.
So very easy to maintain user friendly and more readable code right?
We will see that how the Fluent and builder style API we have seen.
Okay.
And all the latest support it provide an easy integration like interceptor filters.
Very easy integrations are present right.
Those integration might be also present with Rest template.
But it's not like that easy.
They you there might be like some overloaded method which you have to know and see lot of parameter.
You have to pass to use that.
It is possible.
I'm not saying it's not possible, but it's not easy.
With Rest client you will see that those things are very, very easy.
So we'll see you in Rest client video in the next part.
And we will also come to the main.
This.
Spring cloud way of communicating between the microservice client okay.
So any doubt let me know in the comment section.
We'll discuss further.
Thank you.
Bye.