# Back-Of-The-Envelope Estimation for System Design Interview

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today I am going to tell you about the back of the envelope estimation which you are going to use.
Like every time you gonna solve any high level design question right.
In an interview or as a practice you have to face the back of the envelope estimation.
And that's why today in this, uh, topic, I will cover the estimation of Facebook, right, as a sample,
as a practice.
And also I'll tell you, like, uh, step by step, how to come up with this kind of estimation.
Okay.
So let's, uh, proceed further.
But before doing an estimation of Facebook, I will tell you, like what is back of the envelope estimation.
First, those who don't know.
So I'll tell you what is this.
So let's consider this.
Let's if we directly jump into the question, let's say I say that design Facebook.
So I just simply say that, okay, I will take a load balancer.
Then here I will have CDN.
Right.
Then I have uh, multiple processors or servers.
Then here I will have cash.
Then I will have some data base.
Let's say this is how.
So this is just a randomly I'm taking.
But what I'm trying to say is that if you directly jump into the design part, then interviewer can
ask, do you really need load balancer?
Do you really need CDN?
How many servers you gonna need?
What should be the capacity right?
Do you really need cash?
And if yes, what?
What is the size of storage size?
So if you are not able to answer all of this, even if your design is correct, you are in a trouble,
right?
Because it will give an impression that you started the design without considering the system constraints.
Right.
So let's that's where the back of the envelope estimation comes into the picture.
Key feature of a load balancer design.
Yes I am gonna use a load balancer.
But what if there is not much traffic.
There is no need of load balancer itself, right?
There is no need of taking a server itself.
Then it's a wastage of resource.
So that's where the back of the envelope estimation comes into the picture.
So that we are not under utilized for over overlay system.
Otherwise it would be a wastage of resources.
Right.
So now you know right.
What is the use.
What is the need of back or back of the envelope estimation.
So this was the need.
So we need why we need this right.
So it drives our decision.
For system design.
Right.
So in a simple way, if I can say what is the back of the envelope estimation.
So back of the envelope estimation drive our decision for system design load balancer.
It is driving my decision based on some numbers which we have come up with.
Right.
You got it.
Okay.
So now with this one I will tell you about some considerations first.
Right.
So before starting the estimation of Facebook.
So I want to tell you something about basics of back of the envelope estimation so that you are totally
in line with me when I'm proceeding with this values.
So couple of consideration I am taking.
First of all these are the rough numbers rough?
Or you can say that t shirt size.
T shirt size estimation.
So it's a rough estimation or a t shirt size estimation means it is a high level estimation, not exact.
It's a not accurate.
So whatever the numbers I'm going to come up with estimation of Facebook.
It is not actually met with the real Facebook right.
It's just an estimation.
Second thing is do not spend much time, do not spend much time.
Why?
Because see 97 or 98% of the time interviewer is expecting that whatever the design you have to make,
that should be scalable.
And whenever you have to make a scalable design, you have to come up with CD and cash, right?
Multiple servers, load balancer, all these things has to come.
Right.
So this number which we are estimation number, which we are just coming up, That is just like, yes,
you know these things, right?
But it is not impacting your design in real world.
It is impacting it drives our decision.
But in interview and interview it is impacting, uh, your decision most probably 95% of the time.
No, because, uh, interviewer is expecting a scalable design and scalable design.
The chances are we use all these things, right?
So whatever the number, you are gonna come up with you again, do the same designing.
So that's what I am saying.
Do not spend much time.
Most of the chances it gonna not much impact your design in the interview.
Right.
So and also last thing last consideration keep the assumption value simple.
Keep the assumption value.
Simple don't take 275 million users, right?
Always take into multiplication of ten or it is easy to compute.
10 million.
100 million, right?
Thousand.
Like this?
500.
But never take 435, which is very difficult to compute or remember also.
Right?
So keep the assumptions value simple and which will really help you in computation.
Right.
So now you know what is the need of back of the envelope estimation and what is the definition.
Also and few consideration which is important.
Now before starting the question again last some cheat sheet I want to give you two cheat sheet.
So everything is in multiple of three zeros.
So three zeros.
So traffic.
Storage.
So you're both important.
This is very, very important.
Always before starting of the high level design interview, keep this in hand with you.
That three zero is 1000.
Storage is KB.
Six zero is just a thousand million billion trillion I think quadrillion something right.
So 6090 12 zero 15 0 or 3 333 plus three plus three plus three plus three.
Similarly KB are bigger than KB is MB, then GB, then TB, then PB, petabyte terabyte, gigabyte,
megabytes and kilobytes.
Right.
So keep this in handy.
Key thing zero value change right?
Also, one more thing is whenever you design something right, you have to come up, deal with the data.
Either you have to deal with character, you have to deal with some values long or double, and you
have to deal with images, videos, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
So always keep that okay.
Character I am assuming it would be two bytes right.
So you know right.
Characters are of two type like Ascii and Unicode.
So Ascii is one byte and Unicode is two byte.
So I am assuming for my like what if the if I have to deal with the characters, I will consider this
a two byte long and double.
I will consider it as eight byte and image average image size.
I would say that I will consider as a let's say 300 KB, right?
So these are the basic assumptions which you have to do.
So this is very important.
And this is also gonna important like based upon the question which we are getting for the designing.
Okay.
So till now, everything looks good, right?
Simple.
Now, second thing is, when we are saying that back of the envelope estimation and we know that what
we have to estimate, we have to estimate the numbers.
Like how many servers.
Right.
How what is the storage capacity.
So generally I compute three things from the back of the envelope.
Number of servers.
We gonna need right Ram and the storage capacity.
So there could be a lot more things which we have to come up with.
But generally I always compute these three things.
Right.
Which are very, very important resources in our system design.
Right.
So this is just my way.
Like what I compute.
But yes, definitely you can refer.
And like what all other things we can compute, right.
So you can definitely add.
So I come up with this three.
And last is trade off based on the cap theorem I defined.
Like what is the trade off I am doing for my system.
I will tell you about this thing.
So these three values I compute.
Then I tell the trade off and then I go with the design.
So with this information now I am going to start.
And one before this thing I have one more important thing I want to tell you.
So this is very important cheat sheet right.
So just take remember this formula X let's say million x million user.
Into take anything m b y m b.
If I am doing a storage calculation so what it will become it will become x y this x Y.
Multiply and million has.
How many zeros?
Million has six.
Zero.
MB has again six zero.
So how many zero.
It will become 1212 is TB so it x y TB for example.
Another example I can take is let's say I have 5 million user.
Into two kilobyte.
So what the what is the storage capacity I need.
Uh million has six zeros.
Kilo KB has three.
So it become nine.
So nine is uh GB so it be GB.
And what is the value five to the 1010 GB storage I needed.
Right.
If 5 million user require use two kb then ten GB I gonna need it.
So remember this formula right now based on the number of zeros, we will find out like, okay, what
is the storage capacity for that zero.
And we will just multiply it.
Now I am going to start this over estimation of Facebook.
Right.
I will tell you step by step right.
If there is any doubt ping me on the comment section guys.
Estimate of Facebook.
And you already know some very basics about the, uh, back of the envelope.
Consideration to this basic cheat sheet, right.
Or a formula which is going to help you a lot, or compute right back of the envelope.
Compute.
Right.
Or what important do not spend much time on this.
So let's start guys.
Because as I already told you, it's gonna not impact our design in the interview.
Right.
Okay.
So I am going with the estimate of Facebook now.
Right.
So always first is you have to come with a traffic go step by step traffic estimation.
So with the traffic estimation what we gonna have come up with is like so I am building a Facebook.
Right.
So here traffic estimation is let's say total user.
So always take into multiplication.
So I am assuming that total users of Facebook is 1 billion.
Right.
Then the second part in the traffic estimation is d a daily active users.
Right.
So daily active users considered is like uh, we can say that 25% of total users, right?
So 25% of total users, uh, this become 250 million.
Users.
Right.
So with this thing now traffic estimate.
Now, when we are saying daily active users or 250 million users.
So can we come up with an estimate like daily how many request query we can get.
Right.
So you know that in any system we have a read operation and write operation.
So we can say that let's say he is uh, every user is doing five read and two write operation.
So almost seven query now.
So we need to come up with like traffic estimation.
We are computing right.
So we have to come up with like what is the per second traffic we gonna get.
So currently we have the daily data.
So 250 million Users which are daily active users.
Giving us seven query right.
So these are per day.
So we have to divide it by seconds in a day.
So we you can compute it right.
So in one day so in one hour 60 into 60 into 24.
So this many seconds we have in a day.
So generally this come as ah you are like 86,400 something.
Generally this second comes up right.
So this many seconds.
So what I told is always do an assumption which is easy to remember.
And we can do an assumption in this right.
So always do some round off also.
So I am making a one lakh seconds right.
So with this what we are getting is we are getting.
18 k query per second.
So this is the traffic which we are estimating that per second I am going to get 18 k request.
So estimation.
Now the second part is storage assumption.
And assume every user is doing two posts two posts.
Right.
And each post is of you can say that we can come up with some characters.
Let's say each post is of 250 characters.
Right.
10% of the users.
Is uploading one image also.
it's possible right?
In the Facebook we can also upload a image also.
Right.
So this is the assumption which I am doing.
So every daily active users is doing two posts and each post is of 250 characters.
Right.
And also we are assuming that 10% of the daily active user is uploading one image and one image.
We have already known that it is of 300 kbps size.
This is the assumption which we have kept right?
Okay, so now let's start with this one.
First one post.
250 character.
And we I told you in the start itself that I am estimating that one character is two byte.
So how many bytes we gonna need 250 50 into two, 250 character into two bytes.
So one post I am going to need 500 bytes, right?
So for two post I am going to need 500 bytes into two.
So it's a 1000 byte.
Or you can say that one kilobyte.
Right.
So now we have to say that every uh do a doing two posts.
So how many daily active users we have in our system.
250 million users.
So 250 million.
Users doing two posts daily, one KB write two posts turned out to be one KB.
So how many memory can you tell me?
Million is six zero KB is three zero.
So total nine zero.
So nine zero is GB right?
First we write B and then we have 250 into one.
So it turned out to be 250 GB.
We gonna need it just for the post per day.
Right.
Now similarly what we have is we told that 10% of the user uploading one image.
Right.
So 10% of the users of daily active user.
10% is 25 million.
Users.
Right.
So what we are doing is 25 million users into one image or one image.
We have kept for 300 KB.
Can we compute it?
Six zero KB is three zero.
So total 9090 is again I think uh GB only.
GB 25 into 300.
So here 25 into 300 is 7500.
Right.
So can we simplify this one.
So we know that it's let's say it's a 7000 GB right.
So seven into 1000 GB.
So three zeros.
We are going to add more.
So after GB what is the next TB.
So it's around seven TB.
Or if you want to go at a higher level we can say that around eight TB just for taking a peek right.
Eight TB you got it right.
How we just how this cheat sheet is helping us.
So this is the storage capacity which we are coming up with for.
Image for post daily.
We gonna need 250 GB per day.
And for image we need eight TB per day.
And let's say we want to store the data for five years total 102 five days.
So we can estimate it around 2000 days.
Right.
So one day you gonna need that much data.
Right?
So now we can easily compute right.
How much data.
So 2000 into 250 GB for the post.
And for the image you're gonna need 2000.
And for each day you need eight terabyte.
Right.
So we can compute we can come up with this values.
And that would be our storage capacity, right?
So with this one you would get around 500 TB.
And this one you will get around 16 petabyte.
Right.
So this is my storage capacity for five years I'm gonna need it.
Right.
So if you see the real time Facebook it would be huge.
But this is how we are coming up with an estimation based upon this.
So now I have a traffic estimation I have a storage estimation.
Now the another main part we have to do is Ram estimation.
So now with Ram estimation what we can do is.
So let's do some assumption.
We can ask the interviewer.
Like we can say that for each.
User we are putting a cache like last five posts.
Last five posts.
We are putting into cash.
Right.
So this is what so we know post is 500 bytes.
Now we need five posts.
So five into five.
This will become 2500 bytes.
So now when we are saying for each daily active users right.
We are keeping last five posts.
So daily active users.
So we have around 250 million.
Daily active user.
Right.
So for each 250 million users we are putting five posts into the cache, which is nothing but a 2500
bytes.
Right.
So this 2500 bytes, can we do a simple round up estimate like around three KB.
Right.
So we can guess that 3000 bytes and then 3000 bytes.
We can say that three KB and this is 250 million.
Now we can come up with the memory space.
So three 250 million is six zero KB is three zero.
So definitely it's a GB right.
And two 5250 into three we can come up with I think it is 750 GB.
So 750 GB is required.
The memory space.
This is the memory space.
So for each user if last five posts I have to keep in memory then I need 750 GB memory.
So now here you can say that if one machine can hold 75 GB of data in memory.
Right.
Then how many machines you gonna need?
You're gonna need ten machines for caching.
Are you there?
The caching nodes will be present into this ten machines.
You got it.
Like, how much Ram you gonna need?
750 GB.
And to use this Ram, how many machines you gonna need it?
Right.
So based on this Ram, we can say that our latency, since we are going to use this Ram.
So you can give an estimation that latency is 95% of the time.
My request would be I would serve into 500 milliseconds.
Just come up with this number.
It will give an impression that yes, you take care of latency also, right.
So here just say that okay.
My latency is 95% of the time is 500 milliseconds, right?
Based.
So generally in the real world, I think it will consider, uh, like lot of more things to come up
with this number.
But for the estimation, I'm just saying you can put an estimation that 95% of the time, 500 milliseconds.
One request I will serve.
So now you know, right, you have 18 K uh, queries, 18 K requests per second.
Right.
And you can say that my one machine can have 50 threads, or you can say that one machine or one server,
I am saying okay, let's put a one server.
One server has let's say 50 threads okay.
Multiple threads.
Server one server has 50 thread.
Right.
And you can say that they can.
So in what we are saying is 500 milliseconds.
So one second has or two 500 milliseconds.
Right.
So any requests of 101 server can serve 100 requests per second.
500 milliseconds may ask request server.
So eight second though right in one second I can serve two requests.
And how many threads there are there.
50.
So 100 requests per second.
I can serve with the one server, but we have 18 requests per second.
So how many servers I am needed?
How many servers?
18 divided by 100.
So you need around 100 servers.
Application servers.
You need it, right?
So here, if you see that I have come up with this number, it might not be correct.
Right.
It's not matching to the exact this thing.
It would be very very far away.
But it's just a estimation like how we are coming up with this value.
So now we have come up with this three thing which we wanted to compute.
Uh, so here we are.
Right.
Number of servers is 180 servers I'm gonna use Ram is 750 GB and I'm going to use ten machine.
I'm going to put the cache node in ten machines.
And storage capacity is uh how much we have come up with.
So for five years it's around for post.
I'm going to use the 500 terabyte.
And for image it's going to be 16 petabyte right.
So these are the assumptions which I have come up with.
So based on this assumption.
Now the last part is trade off.
You know about cap theorem, right?
I have already made a video on the Cap theorem.
So this is like consistency.
This is availability.
So it's like this.
Right.
So it's like this not this.
This.
So this is consistency.
This is availability.
This is partition tolerance right.
So what does cap says that at a particular point of time you can only achieve two.
Either you can do CA or AP right here.
You can have CA here you can have CP or here you can have AP.
So either one of them you can have.
So in detail you can check the video.
So here based upon the uh requirement I would say that I would go with the availability and partition
tolerance I would drop.
So this is my trade off I would drop the consistency, right?
I don't.
So let's say I have a different data stores, but I would drop the consistency.
In this case I will keep the availability and partition tolerance.
So partition tolerance says that.
So there are different nodes right.
So DB node even it's a breakage.
Right.
There is a failure right.
There is a now become a partition.
Are you still are your system is still up or not.
Yes.
For Facebook this is the requirement.
Even if there is a breakage right in the system, right over the network.
If there is a breakage, my system should be able to take a traffic right and availability is right.
Even out of this two nodes, if one of the node is down, can we still serve system or not?
Yes, we should be still should be able to serve our system.
So these two are something for Facebook.
We can say that these are very much needed.
So this is my trade off.
You can discuss with the interviewer.
Right.
Does consistency matter or not.
Then you can tell the trade off.
So this interviewer will get to know okay you are aware of the cap theorem.
So you got it right.
This is little bit tricky.
You can say that but very simple also.
But we don't have to spend much time.
So this calculation today I went very slowly so that you observe like whatever I am trying to do right.
You are able to observe it like.
But once you are able to do some more practice with it, right, you should be able to come up with
this estimate numbers.
So that's why I say that it's a rough numbers, right.
And rough numbers should be very quick to come up with never spend.
So just never spend more than ten minutes on this.
So never spend more than ten minutes on this right?
Try to.
It should be less than ten minutes only to come up for the back of the envelope estimation.
So it's always better that ask the interviewer first.
False.
Do you really need back of the envelope estimation for this?
If we say yes, then do it.
But don't take more than ten minutes because we know that it is not going to impact our design.
We still have to use it most probably.
So okay guys, I hope you able to understand what is back of the envelope estimation.
I have told you my approach generally how I proceed further with this, right?
But definitely I will just before going, I also want to say that these numbers are just an estimation
and real numbers are totally different, right?
And this is just my way of computing the back of the envelope.
There could be lot more consideration which we have to do, which might I am not doing it right.
So just do your analysis.
But this is my approach.
I hope you like it, and I hope it would be helpful for you in further analysis of the back of the envelope
estimation, and it will help you in the interviews also.
Okay, guys.
Bye.
Good night.
