# Consistent Hashing (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed

Hello guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
So today's topic is consistent hashing.
If you've watched the previous video scale zero to million users, we discussed a topic there called
Horizontal sharding.
Today we'll understand how consistent hashing helps in sharding and where it is used.
Right.
So let's go ahead without wasting any time.
So what does consistent hashing do first of all.
We'll see what hashing is.
All right.
In a minute.
We'll first see what hashing is.
What is the.
Use of consistent hashing.
Why did we need consistent hashing.
And then we will see how it works.
After that, we'll see how it solves the problem and how it works.
First of all, what is hashing?
Why did we need hashing?
Right.
So we all know what hashing is.
We use hash tables right.
They have hash function.
So how does it work here we have a key.
For example the key is my name like Shreyansh.
All right.
So this is one of our hash functions.
There will be a hash function.
Right.
So what will that hash function do.
It takes this key as input.
So what did it do here.
Shreyansh.
So this hash function gives me what is called an arbitrary length.
Value meaning it can be of any length, small or large.
This hash function gives an arbitrary length value and a fixed length input.
So let's assume the hash function gives me one, 4321.
For example, this number could be 6070 anything.
So I'm just taking some random example.
If I apply a hash function to my name internally, it generates a value for me.
Let it be 14321.
Or for simplicity, let's say it gives me just a small number, let's say 20.
This is the hash number generated for me.
And here we use a technique called.
Hashing.
What is mod hashing.
We have a hash table with a fixed size right.
It has a fixed size let's say 0 to 5.
So what is its size?
Six.
All right.
So what do we say here.
We take mod n six so that whatever data we insert, it goes into a specific index because that's the
size I have.
This is called mod hashing.
So you understand what hashing is, right?
In hashing there is a hash function that converts an arbitrary length value into a fixed length value.
Then there is a technique called mod hashing.
What happens in it is that whatever size is in our hash table, so that whatever value is there, I
have to store it in this table.
So I mod it.
By its size.
The size of the hash table.
Right.
So now assume whatever I got its index came as two.
So this value will be stored at index two.
So this is how hashing works.
Clear.
Now next let's see what is the problem if what is the problem.
With this hashing.
What is the issue and why did we need consistent hashing?
Right.
If this thing my size, if it is fixed.
If my size is fixed modulo six.
If this is fixed.
Then hashing is perfectly fine.
No issues with it, but the problem arises when the size is not fixed, for example.
All right.
For example, how is it used?
One is our load balancing.
For application servers.
And the other is horizontal sharding.
All right.
What happens.
And this is load balancing for application servers where I have a load balancer and application servers.
App server one.
App server two.
Like this.
And assume I currently have three servers, right?
So if the load balancer is using a hashing technique, for example it is using.
Mod hashing right.
So what is this?
This is the load balancer.
If it is using some hashing technique here like.
Mode.
And currently how many servers do I have 123.
So it is using mod three.
And here I am getting a request and I need to send this request to which server.
Right.
Because what is the job of a load balancer?
The job of a load balancer is to equally divide the traffic to my app servers, so that no single app
server gets overloaded, right?
If I'm getting ten requests, it should divide them into three, 3 or 4 so that the load remains equal.
That is the work of load balancing.
All right.
So whenever I get a request currently I have three servers.
So it will use mod hashing.
Whatever request I have it will take the key get its hash function and mod three, then send it to one
of them.
In sharding.
What happens in horizontal sharding is we create multiple DB servers.
All right.
For example, there is a huge DB with 100 rows.
So we can divide it into two DB's with 50 rows each.
So now which value will go into which db that is decided by for example a to p.
Will go here in db one Q to j will go in DB two.
So this is horizontal sharding.
But here the same issue arises as in load balancing.
Here assume if all names come like this more, then this db will fill up quickly and this one will remain
empty.
So the load is not equally divided, right?
So here too we need consistent hashing so that whatever data we have that should be equally divided
among all the databases, right?
If more is coming, then it should decide in such a way that it gets equally divided among.
All right.
So here we have the same problem in load balancing and horizontal sharding.
Then the traffic whatever traffic is coming the servers we have here application servers in horizontal
sharding DB servers, how to divide it equally so that the load on our servers remains constant meaning
equal.
Right.
All right.
So now, for example, what I was explaining to you, assume my name came Shreyansh.
I applied a hash function and the hash was mod three because currently I have three servers.
Right.
This could be app servers here.
This could be DB servers here, right.
For example, let's talk from the horizontal sharding perspective.
This data of mine is stored in node one.
Shreyansh is stored in DB.
All right.
Now assume the next name came for example Rahul.
All right same applied mode three on Rahul for example it will come as node one.
And this came as node two.
So Rahul is stored here.
For example another came Shivam.
Applied mode three on Shivam.
And this came as node three.
So here Shivam is stored.
Alright, everything is fine so far.
But what I told you was that the hashing technique is only.
Valid.
And you can see it more applicable when the size is fixed.
The server size is fixed.
But here is it fixed.
Node one.
Node two.
Node three are not fixed, right?
Because these are servers and according to our need this server can increase or this server can decrease.
Right.
So the first use cases if these increase.
Alright.
If they increase then what will happen is now these become.
Not one not two not three.
And now I have one more node for this is newly added.
Newly added node.
All right.
So now what will happen to my load balancers function?
Whatever key I have, whatever key is coming.
Mode four will now be mode four right here.
It will be mode four, not mode three.
So now the modulus has changed.
So definitely for example, if the name Shreyansh comes again right.
My expectation was that when Shreyansh comes I will run this method mod three.
So I will know which db my data is stored in, right.
But now an extra node has been added.
So if shreyansh comes now F of Shreyansh mode four, is it still guaranteed that node one will not give
it?
Okay, first it was mode three and now it's mode four.
So definitely the chances are that the value now is.
For example I have n2.
So it will request to Shreyansh to search for shreyansh data.
But where was my data.
though it was in node one.
Here it was in node one, so now it won't get the data.
So what do I have to do?
Rebalancing.
This is called rebalancing.
So what I have to do is bring all the data from here to there after rebalancing okay.
The data has to be brought from here to there.
Similarly, it might happen that Rahul's chain, which was earlier on node two, now moves to node three.
Here Rahul moves now.
So even now I have to rebalance.
Why?
Because earlier Rahul was on node two.
Now where has he come?
Node three.
So I have to rebalance Rahul's data from node two to node three.
This is called rebalancing.
Okay, so here for example here you took three simple examples in DB.
How much value is there.
Maybe millions of transactions right.
Millions of DB entries.
Okay, so assume that in this rebalancing, if any node comes or gets deleted, then the mod I have
will change.
And because of this I will have to rebalance for the millions of DB entries.
Okay, the entries that were earlier in node one okay, their whatever entries used to come.
Let's say for example id, I have an id in the db.
The user requested something with that ID and we know that we give everything an ID, so I know whenever
this ID comes I will apply a hash function on it.
So it used to go to node one earlier when it was three.
But now I have added a new node.
So now on the same id I will apply mode four.
So it is going to node one, going to node two.
But the data is in node one.
So here I have to rebalance all the IDs.
In this way all the IDs could be thousands could be millions.
I have to rebalance them.
Bring them to the new node in node two.
So this makes hashing not applicable.
And you can see it's not a good approach where our nodes are dynamic in load balancing where we have
to send traffic.
The app is dynamic.
The app can go down, the app can crash, or a new app can come in horizontal sharding.
We can do another DB.
Okay, in this we can say from A to F, then from G to P, and then here from Q to Z okay.
And we can further divide also okay.
And here we can also remove.
So these are dynamic.
So when it's dynamic we can't apply normal hashing.
Why can't we apply it.
I have told you because the modular changes.
So what is the solution.
The solution is consistent hashing.
What does consistent hashing solve?
Consistent hashing solves that whenever a new node.
Node one, node two, node three I had these okay.
So it has keys from key one to key ten.
It has some keys.
It has some keys okay.
They are storing some data.
So what is the motto of consistent hashing that either no node comes.
Or one is removed.
In both these cases this rebalancing.
Is to minimize it.
How much to minimize it?
One.
Raise to the power n percentage of total number of keys.
Total number of keys only.
This much rebalancing should happen.
That's a formula.
And this number of nodes.
Okay.
However many active number of nodes there are.
So one raise to the power n percentage of total number of keys.
Okay.
This much percent of keys should be rebalanced.
That's it.
So that's what consistent hashing can achieve okay.
If you have to rebalance only this many keys here, you would have to rebalance millions of DB entries.
Right.
In normal hashing okay.
That is not good.
Consistent hashing says that you can achieve this good.
This much rebalancing is good 1%, whatever percent it is.
If you have to rebalance that much of the total number of keys.
Okay.
So the purpose of consistent hashing is that if a node is removed, okay.
In that case, or if a new node comes.
In that case, the thing that had to be rebalanced, that should be minimized.
Okay.
That is the only motto.
And how much to minimize one raise to the power n percent.
This much of total key is on average.
If you are rebalancing this many keys, that is good, but not more than this.
Now you understand what is the use of consistent hashing?
What is the problem with hashing?
What is the use of consistent hashing?
Now let's see how does consistent hashing work?
Okay, so how does consistent hashing work in consistent hashing?
First of all, it takes a virtual.
Ring okay.
This ring is you can consider a circular queue.
Okay so there is a virtual ring.
So now I have taken a virtual link here for which size.
For the total size Okay.
It starts from zero, ends at 11, and then back to zero.
Okay.
So now first of all, what does it do?
It removes the dependency.
Now here what I have done is the servers.
The DB servers or application servers, whatever servers you take okay.
What does it do to them on this ring?
Sets them randomly okay.
So for example I am taking the same mod hashing for the server.
So in this I have 12 as the size.
So first let's assume I have three servers.
Server one, server two, server three okay.
I have assumed server one is hashed hash of server one mode.
So let's assume it came to this position for example.
It came to my server one.
Okay.
This is.
Server one.
Okay, second I hashed server two.
For example, my server two came here.
I'm just taking randomly.
We place it here.
Okay.
Here I placed server two.
Okay.
Then I took out the hash of server three.
Hash of server three.
Mod 12.
Let's assume it comes somewhere at 11.
Okay so here I take.
For example.
It became my server three.
So here I took three servers extracted their values in such a way in the ring which.
Value my servers came on okay.
This is just random.
Okay.
And for this example I took them at equally distant places.
But I will tell you the problem with this approach, the problem with this approach.
But for example, let's say they are at equally distant places, the hash function I used in this way.
So now assume I have keys coming.
Now I have keys coming.
Key one.
Key two.
Key three.
Key four.
Key five six.
Now I have also taken out the hash in this hash of key one mod 12.
So assume key one came here.
Now for key one let me take a different color.
Let's say key one came here.
Okay.
Key two came here.
Key three came here.
Key four came here.
Key five came here.
Key six came here.
Key seven came here.
For example, randomly this hash I am using only the mod hashing technique, but on a virtual ring I
have extracted the values of all.
Okay, so now which server will fulfill which key or handle the request?
Now what I have to do is move clockwise.
Okay.
What I have to do is move clockwise.
I will move clockwise from here okay.
So from key to key to who will handle key one here.
Move clockwise.
Which server did it meet first.
Server one.
So who will handle key one.
Server one from key two I am moving clockwise.
Who did I meet?
Server one.
So what is server one?
Handling server one is handling my key.
One handling key.
Similarly who will handle key seven?
It will move clockwise.
This key seven or call it value.
It will go to S2 to server two.
Where will key five go to S2 clockwise.
So S2 is storing key five.
Key seven.
Okay.
Similarly, where will T6 go to S3?
Where will T3 go to S3?
Where will Qi four go to S3?
Okay, so S3 will fulfill three Ki six, Ki three, Ki four.
Okay, understood.
Which servers will fulfill the keys?
In this way?
It is decided by going clockwise.
All right.
Now let's assume I'm adding here.
Okay.
Now how is this solution being solved.
So you will have to observe here.
Now assume addition.
Addition of server.
If I add a server what happens.
So now assume within this example.
All right.
Within this example currently I had three servers.
Now here what I am doing is adding one more server.
Okay, I'm adding one more server.
And that would be my.
Let's see.
I'm adding a server on a pipe.
I added a new server.
All right.
This is my.
Four.
Okay.
S1 s2 s3 s4.
So now see here which rebalancing needs to be done right now.
See if any change happened to K1k2.
No change happened.
All right.
Here is still pointing clockwise to the same K six.
K3 K4.
Still no change happened.
All right.
What was coming in S3 was k six k3 k4 k.
K3 k4.
No change happened on s1, k1, k2 no change happened.
All right.
Here on S2, k5 K7 was coming, but now only K5 is coming.
Who will handle K7?
It will move clockwise to S4.
G7 will come to S4.
All right, so here I didn't have to rebalance everything.
Just a limited number of keys had to be rebalanced.
So it reduces the number of keys I have to rebalance.
This reduces that number.
Right.
And similarly if I do deletion deletion of server.
If I delete for example in this case okay I delete seven.
Assuming the server with seven is removed.
So in this case what will happen.
Now the K5 was okay.
This will move clockwise.
Now which server will it go to.
This will also be received by the next server S3.
So K fire was handled by S2.
Now who is handling k S3.
I.
All right.
So you understood how consistent hashing works.
Now I'll tell you its disadvantage.
What is the disadvantage of content hashing here.
So a big disadvantage of consistent hashing is and I'll tell you in the film how to solve it.
So here we had the diagram of consistent hashing.
Let's take it one more time.
Okay.
Here we take the diagram of consistent hashing.
Now see here in consistent hashing earlier.
What did you decide?
I told you that for now we took these servers at equally distant points.
But what is hashing more hashing.
What if this happens?
That this is my server, right?
My server two comes here.
And my server three comes here.
Okay, so this is my.
Server one.
This is my server two.
This is my server three.
And now the key is coming in.
Assume these are key one.
Key two.
Q3.
Q4 Q5 Q6 so who will handle all these?
It will go clockwise to S1.
All right.
They will move clockwise right.
So we have to move clockwise.
So it will move clockwise to S1.
So.
S1 all will go to S1.
And all SNL also full front base one.
Here two no server was found in a clockwise manner S1 so here it failed, meaning the consistent hashing
was supposed to divide our load equally, but now it didn't divide equally, so all the pressure came
on S1.
So here it says to create.
Virtual objects.
Now I'll tell you about virtual objects.
There's nothing in virtual objects.
What it says is to replicate.
The server at different points.
Okay.
So what does it mean to replicate.
Let me erase this once.
Here what it says is.
To replicate and create virtual objects that these servers should place themselves at different points,
like the server was at one two.
So place it randomly at other points too.
For example, I placed it at eight.
And here I placed it at 11 okay.
Similarly I'll place server two at different points.
For example, I place server two here at six.
Placed it at ten.
All right.
And similarly I randomly placed server three at one.
And placed it at nine okay.
So that's creating virtual objects meaning giving them virtual points that were originally derived from
the hash function and then placing them virtually at other points too.
Like s one came at two after hashing.
So I'll say besides two, I'll randomly take out two more positions.
2 or 3 depends, and I'll do it there too.
I took out one at eight, one at 11.
So in a way I virtually replicated it.
If at two, eight, 811 I'll say my server one is there.
Okay.
And at these points, server three is there at three, six and ten.
Server two is there.
So now when my keys come assume key one, key two.
Key three.
Key four.
Key five okay.
Key six.
Key seven.
So now see here this will go this server one will take care of it at the same point.
Key one.
This server one.
So not server one.
Server three is that color.
So on server three which ones are there.
Key one.
Key two.
All right then which key do I have.
Key six.
It will move clockwise.
It got this color server s2.
S2 got key six.
Then key seven is on the same.
So key seven.
Now see is getting equally divided right by virtualizing.
Key five will go.
It got this yellow one.
What was it.
Server one.
So server one got key T5.
T4 is on the same all right.
And T3 is on yellow.
This yellow is server one.
So now see here how it got equally divided when I increase the distribution of servers.
Okay.
That is nothing but replicating the server at different points.
Whatever points initially came from the servers replicate them at different points that yes, these
points also have the same server.
All right.
They're all virtual.
Okay.
And you understood.
And how many replicas do we need to make?
You might ask, how many replicas should I make of the server?
Okay.
We need to make as many replicas as needed to achieve the balancing of one raise power.
And percent is of total.
How much do I need to rebalance when I achieve this percentage?
So it means I have done the distribution.
I hope this is clear.
Okay.
And where is it used?
I told you that this is our virtual where we have different nodes.
All right.
Whether it's an application node or a DB node.
And we have to divide the traffic to divide the traffic equally.
Okay.
And this is dynamic.
Then our normal hashing is not used.
Then our consistent hashing is used.
Alright.
So here this mode keeps changing.
Then we have to use consistent hashing, whether it's horizontal sharding, load balancing or any other
use case where we have to divide the traffic equally among servers and these servers are dynamic.
If it's static, then consistent hashing is not needed.
That will work if it's always node three, but if it becomes 4 or 2 then it's a problem, then hashing
will not work okay, because we'll have to rebalance the nodes.
Alright.
It might be that all the data is here.
If next time, after rebalancing the value of the server that was deleted changes or I'll have to put
all the data in it first.
I hope you got it guys and you liked it.
If you liked it guys, please share it with your connections and comment.
If you have any doubts, feel free to ask me.
Feel free to ping me on LinkedIn or ping me anywhere.
And I've already shared the telegram link in our about section, okay.
And I'll also give it in the description, so feel free to join there also and you can message there
too.
I am replying as soon as possible guys to that is a very important topic and I hope it was understood
very well if somebody asked in the interview just.
Okay guys.
Okay, have a nice day.
Good night.
