Share on this site.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today in Java we are going to cover sealed classes and interfaces which has been introduced in Java
17.
So before we start let's first understand the problem why this has been introduced.
So in my view the biggest problem is lack of control in inheritance.
So consider this example that if you have created an interface shape now do you have a control like
which class can implement it or not.
Circle rectangle triangle.
Or it can be anything which can directly implement shape.
Similarly, the subclasses of circle can be anything, right?
We have zero control and it goes on like you have no control over this hierarchy, like where it will
stop.
So it is not possible to control the hierarchy.
Any class can join it by implementing the interface or extending the class.
Even we did not plan for it Like.
So let's say that this class I have not even planned.
But still it came because I have no control.
I cannot prevent someone from extending the parent class and adding it.
What if some engineer added it?
So because of that, whenever you add a code, you add like this.
Hey, if it is a circle, yes, I can handle it.
Hey, if this shape is a rectangle, yes, I can handle it.
And you also have to put else condition that hey, if any unknown child comes of a shape which I don't
know which I can't handle, then do this default thing.
Similarly, when you do a switch, you put always default so that okay it's circle I can handle, rectangle
I can handle, but if there is something which I can't handle then this default should run okay.
And many times it possible that if you add something in the child, there is some silently breaks in
the code if you are not handling it properly.
So that's where to bring the control troll the seed classes and interfaces comes into the picture.
So consider this example now.
So now let's say shape.
We have a shape interface.
Now we have to put a sealed keyword here seed.
And the seed is used with permits.
So what it says that that this interface shape can be subclassed but only by its own permits list.
Okay.
What sealed says that yes, you can create a subclass of it, but whatever the classes or interfaces
you have defined here, those only can directly implement or extend it.
So now in the permits I have only put circle and rectangle.
So when you create a class circle implement shape it is allowed.
When you put class rectangle implement shape.
This is also allowed.
But when you try to put like a triangle implement shape, it is not allowed because in the permit list
it is not there.
Also, one more thing is that each classes which are defined into the permit list.
Okay.
Or you can say that each subclass, each subclass, you have to now choose whether.
Between final.
Permit or non sealed.
So we have to decide between these three.
So now let's say circle.
Do I want a further subclass of it.
No I don't want to allow it.
This is the end of this branch.
So I choose final.
Final means no further subclass of this is allowed okay then the second is non sealed.
Let's say that I want to open this branch.
Yeah.
For this rectangle there can be multiple unknown Childs can come like we don't know.
There can be many subclasses classes, right?
I don't want to put some restriction.
Then you put Non-sealed means this class or interface is open to be extended by any number of childs.
Okay.
Similarly there is something called sealed permit again.
So like if I want to restrict I can use a sealed.
Then I will put permit only by let's say rectangle colored rectangle or non colored rectangle, something
like that.
Then only the subclass of this can be only this colored rectangle and non colored rectangle.
That's all.
Not not others are allowed.
So for any subclass we have to pick one of it.
So few things we have to consider.
Permit type should be direct subclass of the sealed interface.
So now here if you see in the permit I have choose circle and rectangle.
So one condition says that this circle and rectangle should be a direct child of the shape.
Okay, this shape is the sealed one, right?
So whichever interface is sealed and whatever the permit you have used, those should have direct child
of subclass of this.
It should not be like this.
Hey, I have a shape.
Then I have some different class x, y, z and then I have circle.
Still, circle is a child of shape, but it's not direct.
So that's the first condition.
Like whatever the classes or interface you have mentioned into the permit list, those should be the
direct of this sealed one.
Permit type should be either final sealed and non sealed.
That I told you that whatever it is present here or whatever the child you have present here, you have
to choose whether you can define it as a final or sealed permit or non sealed.
One of them.
You have to choose.
All permit types should be present future classes or interface not considered.
Now let's say that while you are designing you say that.
Okay.
Circle, rectangle and triangle is also allowed.
But you have only current implementation present for circle and rectangle.
But you can't add future.
Okay.
Triangle.
Let me add triangle so that in future I should not add it.
Okay.
So it should be allowed.
No.
Whatever present classes present today those only.
So their implementation should be present in simple terms.
Whatever the classes you are present into the permit list, their implementation should be present.
So let's understand this with this example.
Okay.
Let's say we want to achieve this.
I have an interface shape and I want to restrict it with this circle polygon and abstract shape.
So I have created an interface shape and I want to restrict it right.
So for restriction which one to use.
Sealed permit.
So I put a seal I put a permit I want to allow only circle polygon on abstract shape circle polygon
and abstract shape.
Okay.
Now let's move to circle.
So class circle implement shape.
So this is allowed because it is direct.
It's in the permit list.
And it's a direct child of this sealed one okay.
Now any further subclass allowed for this circle.
No.
So that's why I picked final.
So I stopped here itself.
Now no subclasses allowed here after this circle.
Now polygon.
Polygon is an interface okay.
So here if you see in polygon I can have many child as I wanted.
Okay.
So further subclass allowed.
So I don't want to put any restriction here.
So interface polygon extend shape okay.
So it's a direct child.
Now I put non seal means I don't want to put any restriction on this polygon.
So I open this branch.
You can see that I can I open this branch.
So hexagon I can have any mother.
Other classes also.
Okay, so we can do that.
We can open any branch we want.
And if you want to put a restriction you can put restriction here.
You can put restriction here like okay further down you don't want further branches.
You put restriction here okay.
So that is allowed if you want to restrict let's say hexagon further you put sealed permit.
Like what.
All classes are now allowed within hexagon.
So you can control that only.
So at any level you can control this like whether you want further child or not or whether you want
to seal it or not.
Similarly abstract shape I want to restrict it with only rectangle and triangle.
These two I want to restrict it.
So abstract class abstract shape which implements the shape direct child of this one, then I want to
restrict it.
Right.
So I put sealed and permit I only allow rectangle and triangle.
That's all.
Only these two are allowed okay.
So only these two children's will be allowed.
So I put rectangle which extends the abstract shape.
So now rectangle is a direct child of this abstract shape sealed one and further child of rectangle
allowed.
No.
So I put final.
Now triangle extends abstract shape.
Now triangle I want to allow further subclasses allow I don't want to put I want to open this branch
also.
So I put non sealed okay.
So now you can have any number of childs no problem at all.
So this is an open branch okay.
So it's a very simple topic but very useful when you want a control over your hierarchy.
So if you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further into the comment section.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.