# Template Method Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern)

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And in the low level design today we are going to see template method pattern.
So I'm taking it right.
So only one pattern would be left after this which is interpreter pattern okay.
So let's start with our latest topic which is template method design pattern.
So here the category which this pattern belongs to is the behavioral.
And you need to understand why it's required and when to use.
And before I start I will tell you one point that we use this pattern a lot.
And if you are working you might not know that you are using this pattern.
But this is very frequently used pattern in the industry.
Okay.
So let's read this and then I will tell you that how do you identify that I have to use this pattern
when you want all classes to follow the specific steps to process the task, but also you need to provide
the flexibility that each class can have their own logic in that specific steps.
What does that mean?
Let's take an example.
Understand with an example.
Let's.
Let me take an a payments uh example.
So you know that there are two, uh, type of payments.
One is you when you are making payments to your friend.
Right.
So let's say it is paid to friend flow.
And there is another is when you purchase something online.
Right.
So when you purchase something online okay.
So this is let's say pay to merchant flow.
So let's say in the payment there are two flows when you pay to your friend.
When you pay to a merchant.
Now, no matter whether you are paying to your friend or whether you are paying to a merchant, you
want all the flows to follow a particular steps.
So Payment steps which you want to follow is that say validate, validate request after second they
will debit the money.
Third should be calculate.
Let's say I'm just taking an example.
Calculate fees for the platform.
And the fourth is credit money.
Okay.
So validate if your request whatever it is request is correct or not.
After yes everything is right then debit the money from this user.
Charge certain fee.
The platform should charge certain fee.
That's how they will earn and then credit the money to the receiver.
Either your friend or either to the merchant.
So no matter whether you are paying to a friend or whether you are paying to the merchant, what you
want is you want these flows to follow this specific steps in an order.
Now how you will do it generally let's say that.
So now let's say that I have this payment interface payment, which is an interface.
And let's say you have send money method.
Right.
So here payment I would say that let's say this is the method name.
Task name is send money.
So now your one child would be which one pay two friend.
This would be paid to send flow.
Another child would be.
Pay to merchant flow.
Now they have to override this.
Send money.
Right?
So they will override this.
Send money and they provide their own implementation.
It will also override this.
Send money and provide its implementation.
Now we want that okay.
For this send money.
All this classes should follow this specific steps validate, then debit, then calculate fees and then
credit money.
So it can do first validate and then debit and then compute fees and then credit.
But it is possible that this might not follow this.
It will do validate.
It will do.
First let's say credit and then do debit and then compute fees.
Who knows.
Right.
So but what I'm trying to say is that our requirement is when you want all classes to follow the specific
steps to process the task.
Right.
Then first, this is your first hint when you want all classes to follow a specific step to process
the task.
So what is the task here is send money.
I want to send the money, but I want all classes here.
All the child classes of this payment, no matter if any future, any more flows comes.
If anybody is doing send money, they need to process a specific steps.
What step this is steps right.
So that is the first hint.
Second hint is that I also need to provide the flexibility that each class can have their own specific
logic and specific step.
So validate request might be pay to friend flow might be doing validation certain differently.
This might be doing certain differently.
Calculate fees.
It do not charge any fees 0% fees.
So this person is sending ₹100.
This person is receiving ₹100.
But pay to merchant is charging let's say 2% fees.
If person is buying ₹100 thing merchant is getting only ₹98 to rupees.
Your payment platform get earns.
So what I'm trying to say is that each flow can have different logic for this step.
Okay, so you got it.
How you will identify whether you have to use template pattern.
When all classes write all child classes, you want them to follow a specific step to process the task,
and also flexibility that each class can have their own logic in that specific steps.
Because here if you see that send money right, they are overriding it.
Right.
And they will provide the send money capability.
But it might be possible that it might not follow the specific steps.
So they are following some sequence.
They are following some sequence.
But who will guarantee that they are following the same sequence?
That's where the template method design pattern comes into the picture.
So now see this how you can do that.
The same example, but I have taken it now an abstract class the payment flow I have created an abstract
and the send money right here in the send money.
Now I can create it as a template method.
How I can create it as a template method.
So here I can provide the steps which need to be followed.
So let's say that first step is validate request right.
So this is a one step.
So I can create one abstract method for this one.
Validate request.
Now all child classes can override this and provide the functionality whatever they like right.
Second step I want debit amount.
And I have created this abstract method because this is an abstract class right.
You can have you can create abstract methods also.
And you can provide a method with the functionality also.
Okay.
So the template method is the one where we can provide the functionality.
And it also defines the order of steps to execute the task.
So I am defining the order.
First you have to do validate.
So here is the validate abstract method.
Second is debit amount.
So here is the your abstract method.
Third, you have to do calculate the fees.
Here is the abstract method.
And this fourth one is the credit amount.
Here is the abstract method.
Now all child classes like pay to friend flow pay to merchant flow right.
All the child classes can override this one because they are child of this, right?
They have to provide the implementation of this.
Now they can provide their own implementation.
They can validate it.
Validate logic for a specific to pay to friend debit amount.
Logic is specific to pay to friend calculate fee.
I am not charging anything.
Credit amount.
Credit the full amount.
Similarly pay to merchant have their own logic.
Now in this method they might charge 2% fees.
Credit logic is remaining amount only credit debit minus fees and then only it would be credited.
So what I'm trying to say is that here this abstract methods each child classes can provide their own
implementation, whatever they want and if there is any common.
We can create it here and both can use it.
But this template method here, if you see that it is providing a surety that this send money task like
and I have created final that no child class can override it.
So they have to follow this order.
They can't provide at the rate override send money method.
No.
Why?
Because I have created it final.
So when I have created it final, no child classes now can override it.
So this is the only method which would be available in the parent, right?
No child class can override it.
They can just use this as it is.
Okay.
And validate request.
So whatever the object it will call the specific object whether paid to friend or pay to merchant.
So now let's say when I'm creating let's say payment
My object equals to new.
I am paying to a friend.
Let's say pay two friend.
So I am creating this object.
Pay to friend.
Object.
Right now I am calling obj dot send money.
Now I am calling obj.
OBJ object dot send money.
So now the send money here.
If you see I haven't overrided it.
So it will check into this parent one.
Yes send money is there.
Now it will follow this okay.
First one is validate request.
Now validate request.
The first priority would be given to here.
Here it has provided the implementation.
So this validate request will run.
Now the second debit money it will run this calculate fee.
It will run this.
So now here if you see that I have provided a ordering of this specific task right.
So this task you can call it as a now template method.
Right.
That's why the name template method.
So this method is generally providing a template for this operation which I'm trying to perform.
So this is the template was validate debit fees calculation and then credit.
Now for each this step they can provide their specific implementation.
So now if you read the definition again when you want all class to follow the specific step to process
the task and also provide the flexibility that each class can have their own logic in that specific
step, then only you go for it and that's how you will able to do it.
Understood.
This is very, very simple.
It is nothing.
But it's a very basic we know already know that abstract class can have the concrete method and also
the abstract method.
But it's only the way of thinking that yes, we can use it in such a way.
Right?
We can make it final so that no child classes can override it, and we can provide the steps.
Like what?
All methods it has to be followed and all those methods only I will create abstract.
So now they can provide their own implementation.
Now anybody client is calling it right.
They can call this specific template method or specific task.
Then we can provide a guarantee that this steps will be only followed with their specific logic.
Okay.
Again I tell you that this is very frequently used in the industry.
And the example which I have taken, you can see that it's a kind of a real world example.
I can tell you this is how actually been used in real world.
So this is a real world example.
You can say that okay guys.
Thank you.
If you have any doubt we can discuss more.
And only one design pattern left in the LD.
And I will cover that soon.
See you.
Bye.
