# Java Classes - Part1 | Nested, Concrete, Abstract, Object, Super & Sub Classes

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the type of classes.
So by now you have seen we have done variables methods and right.
So now you have seen that classes we have used a lot.
But do you know that there are how many different type of classes are there.
So here if you see concrete class, abstract class, super subclass I think you already know that object
class.
Nested class.
Important.
Generic class.
Very important.
Pojos.
Enums.
Final class.
Singleton class.
Immutable class.
Wrapper class.
So these are the type of classes right.
And in today's video I will cover till here okay.
And from generic from generic to this one I will cover in the second part.
Otherwise the video would be very very long okay.
So this would be the first part of the video.
And this would be the second part of the video okay.
So let's start with the concrete class.
So which classes are known as concrete classes.
So any class which you can create an instance using new keyword.
Okay.
So those are those classes concrete class are those classes that we can create an instance using new
keyword.
Those are known as concrete class.
All the methods in this class have implementation.
It is like you know that in the interface in the interface class you can just put a definition like
let's say display.
That's all.
It doesn't have implementation.
So what does it say is that in the in the concrete class all the methods should have implementation
okay.
It can be your child class from an interface or extends base class.
What does it mean.
So see this is a normal class person right.
So it has a method has proper implementation.
And you can create an object of it person or obj equals to new person right.
Similarly if you have an interface and you created a implementation of this interface rectangle, now
you are implementing this method.
You are implementing this method, right?
So you cannot create an object of this, but you can create an object of this.
So this is a concrete class okay.
Okay a class access modifier can be public or private practice private.
So now you have seen that uh in the variables in the method we can define public private protected.
And by default it's a package private which is known as default.
But what about the class.
What are the access modifiers we can give.
So we can either give public or we can either give package private which is like nothing.
If you don't give anything, it would be like your default in the package only all other classes would
be able to access it okay in the public in different packages.
Also it would be accessible.
So these are the only two access modifiers which are allowed public or you don't give anything, then
it would be considered as default or packaged private.
Okay, you got it.
The concrete class.
So now whenever say somebody write a concrete class you should know that.
What does it mean now?
What is abstract class?
Abstract class is like you can achieve abstraction.
Like you know that.
What is abstraction?
Abstraction means hiding the implementation from someone or from the client and only exposing the features
which is client required.
So let's say I always give an example of car a car, right.
You give a feature like apply brake, but how internally the brake got applied we don't know.
So we have a implementation somewhere which implements this okay.
So the total brake Break functionality is present here, but client doesn't have to know.
So client.
So abstraction means hiding the implementation and only exposing the features which client has to know.
Okay, it shows only important features to user and hides its internal implementation.
So there are two ways to achieve abstraction.
You know that one is interface.
Okay.
Through interface you can let's say that apply break.
Right.
And the client will only call this method.
But how the break actually got applied.
He don't know because implementation might be in some other class let's say Audi uh which implements
this uh, let's say uh car interface and then it will implement this apply break method and do the complete
implementation.
So interface is one way.
Another is what abstract Keyword.
So in the class, right.
Let's say you have a class car.
Now this abstract keyword, what it allows is that you can only define method but you should not implement
it.
It is so you can create abstract method.
So if you remember from our method video, right, uh, the where we have discussed the different type
of method, you have already aware of what is abstract method.
So you can create an abstract method here.
Let's say apply brake apply brake.
Now whichever class is going to extend because it's a class right.
We have to extend not implement whichever class is going to extend it.
It has to provide the implementation.
So these are the two ways interface.
And through abstract keyword we can achieve abstraction.
So 0 to 100%.
8%.
So see, 100% is an interface or 100% abstraction.
It's like all definition only implementation would be the present in the one which will implement it,
and through abstract classes you can achieve like 0 to 100 even you can have all the methods as abstract
like apply, break or increase the speed.
And you can also have some methods which have implementation, let's say void decrease speed.
And you have implemented the method here also.
So 0 to 100% you can achieve in both through interface interfaces by default 100% abstraction and through
abstract class keyword.
You can either get 100% or maybe, uh, some method abstraction and some without abstraction.
Okay, see this one with the abstract.
So I have created an abstract class.
Okay.
And if you see that here I have created one abstract method press break.
But I haven't given the any implementation.
Another I have created press clutch again I made it as an abstract means no implementation is present
here.
Then I created one method get number of wheels I put four.
Okay, so if you see that I have provided an implementation.
So abstract class can have both abstract methods and the methods which have implementation.
Okay.
Now any other class which extends this car.
So now this car is extend by luxury car.
Now if you have also make it abstract.
So this is possible.
So see this is abstract.
You have make another class which is also an abstract.
So what it can do is either it can provides provide the implementation of it, or either it can add
more abstraction.
It can add more abstraction to it.
So now in the luxury car, what it has done is it added one more abstraction press dual brake system,
I don't know, is it, uh, like dual brake system is there or not?
I just added so but added one functionality that press dual brake system.
It is one more abstract okay.
But it also provide the functionality of press brake.
So implementation is provided.
So the child of this car which is also abstract, it can either provide an implementation of the parent
abstract method or it can just choose that I will add more abstraction.
Okay, now I have created one more child called Audi of Luxury car.
Now if you see that this is not an abstract, okay, it's a concrete class.
It's a concrete class.
Now what?
I told you that concrete class should have all the method implementation.
So this already has to implement all its parent abstract method.
So it has to implement dual brake system proper implementation.
Uh brake is already provided the implementation and clutch is left.
So clutch also has to provide.
So you got it.
So through abstract method the you can create a class as an abstract where you can provide an method
with implementation and also just a definition.
And then you can create a child of this class which can either be an abstract or either can be a concrete.
But remember one thing that we cannot initiate an instance of the abstract class.
You cannot create an object of this class like new car is not allowed here because this luxury car is
abstract.
You can't do new luxury car.
You cannot do this right.
Only for concrete class, you can create new Audi.
Only for concrete classes we can create an object.
For abstract classes.
We can't create an object because they don't have an implementation yet of certain methods.
Okay, but yes, you can store the reference into the parent class.
So you created a new Audi, but you can store a reference into luxury car here.
Luxury car.
And you can say let's reference this reference.
You can store it, but you can't create an object of this luxury one and the car one.
But reference can be stored into the parent class.
Clear.
Are you clear with the abstract class right.
So this is very simple Uh, abstract class, which we have seen.
Now, let me tell you about super and subclass.
So in this one you will see one very, very important, uh, interview questions.
Also, you know that how to create a super class because you till now we have seen lot of inheritance.
Right.
Class A has a child of class B.
What about only A?
It doesn't have any parent.
What will it have?
So generally the parent class is known as superclass.
And child class is known as subclass.
Okay.
But what about the class which doesn't extend anything.
Let's say for example, I have defined class person and it doesn't extend or implement anything.
Right here it has class A.
And this is class B extends Tense a.
So this is a subclass of this is a superclass.
But now here in this case the person class is not extending anything.
Right.
But in Java, if there is, if there is a class which doesn't extend or which doesn't have any superclass
in Java, by default there is a superclass called object class.
So Java has this internal class which is kind of a parent of all.
So it's like this object.
And then you have different classes let's say person or here in this case let's say a.
And then person you can have more child classes in here you can have B.
So every class which doesn't have a parent by default, object class is the one which is the parent
of all.
Okay, so here a class that is derived from another class is called subclass.
So B is derived from A.
It is called subclass and from the class which subclass is derived is called superclass.
So this is known as the superclass okay.
In Java, in the absence of any other explicit superclass A, does it has any superclass?
No.
In person.
Does it have any superclass?
No.
Every class is implicitly a superclass subclass of object class.
So in Java automatically these are a child of object class.
This is very very important.
Interview question.
Remember object is the parent of all the classes okay.
And this object have certain very very very common methods like two string method, right?
Uh, the clone method.
Wait.
Notify.
All like these are very, very common method.
Which object have it?
Right.
So it has some common method like clone two, string equals, notify wait etc..
So generally you will see this notify wait into the threading when we will do thread right.
And when thread runs so you can make it wait.
So that is used.
And if you want to start the thread which is waiting you can call notify.
We'll see into the thread part.
Concurrency part.
Okay.
Now see this how this object is used generally.
So now let's say I am creating a one class object test.
Public class object test.
Normal class okay.
And I have created one method public static void main string arcs.
Right.
Normal.
Our main method.
Now what happen is here.
See this?
I have created a new person object.
Okay.
And this class?
I haven't created it anywhere.
It is by default present in Java.
Now, if you see that I told you that child object can be stored in parent class reference, right?
I told you here, right?
If you're creating a new audio object, it can be stored in parent class reference object like parent
class reference.
So parent is luxury car.
So you can store it into luxury car.
This object reference will be stored here.
So here if you see that I have created a new person object.
Person doesn't have anything.
Person doesn't have any superclass.
But still I am able to hold its reference here in the object class because it's a parent by default.
Similarly, I create a Audi class, Hours, right?
Even the odd class.
Also I can create into the object because it's a parent of all.
And now now let's see I have this objects object one and object two.
I have this object object one and object two.
Now I want to know that hey this object one is of which class like.
So I can do that get class.
So now it will print.
It's a class person object.
Now object two is of which class we don't know right.
There can be many classes because it's a parent of all.
If I want to know it's this object is an instance of which class I can do.
Object two dot get class.
Give me the class name.
It will say that hey, it's a class already.
So this is the one very important which I want to tell that somewhere you want to store the object,
right?
And you don't know which one is the parent, right?
And you want to hold the object.
You can always hold the object into this class or object class because it's a parent of all.
And then later you can use it to know that which class it belongs to and perform certain operation.
Okay, you got superclass and subclass and about the object class.
Now let's go to very very important called nested class.
Okay.
So see nested class first.
So here if you see that we have nested class nested class of two types one is static.
Nested class.
Another is non-static
nested class which is also known as inner class.
So don't get confused with nested class and inner class.
So nested class is of two type static nested class, non-static nested class and non-static nested class
is also known as inner class.
Now this inner class is further divided into three parts.
One is your local.
Inner class.
One is your member.
Inner class and another is your anonymous.
Inner class.
Sometimes they call anonymous class, so.
But generally its anonymous inner class.
So here if you see that we have to understand 12345 kind of nested classes.
Okay.
Very important.
Right.
So from interview C from last eight years to be honest I have very rarely used this as a nested class.
Right.
Um, but still from interview perspective is knowledge.
It's important in interview.
They still ask a question about it, but as a real implementation.
I said that yes, I have used it, but very, very rarely.
Like it's not like we frequently use this nested class.
Just wanted to give a heads up based on my experience.
So what is nested class?
A class within another class is called nested class.
Okay, cool.
When to use.
Hey, you can ask me a question, right?
When to use nested class.
So if you know that a class, let's say A will be used by only and only one another class, you have
created a class A.
Now you know that this class will going to be used only by class B.
Why?
We have to create a new file for it.
Why can't we create an inner class of this nested class of the inside a b itself?
So this is one of the hint that when to use the nested class.
If you know that a class or file which you are creating, if it is going to be used by only one class,
then instead of creating a new file for that class, you can put it into a class B as a nested class.
Okay, so if you know that class A will be used by only another class B, then instead of creating a
new file, a dot Java for it, we can create a nested class inside B itself.
Okay.
So it helps you to group logically related classes in one file itself.
So within a one file itself you can group all the logically related classes.
So this is uh, you can say that uh, a hint when to use the nested classes.
So scope A scope is same as its outer class.
So whatever the scope, whatever the scope of this, uh, class B public or default, I told you.
Right.
It's the scope for this class would still be the same.
It cannot be more than that.
So I told you that static, non-static and all this thing.
Let's go in depth of now.
Static nested class.
So this is very very important all.
So first of all let's see how to create a nested class.
So this is my outer class.
Class.
Outer class.
Okay.
Very simple class class name.
And the access modifier I haven't given anything.
So it by default is default which is a package private right.
Within a package, all the different uh classes would be able to access this one.
Okay.
Now see I have created one instance variable.
Instance variables means it.
This variable would be associated with an object because.
And I have created one static.
This is class variable means this object is related to a class, not to an object.
I think from r variables session.
Session.
You might already know the difference between instance variable and class variable.
So I have created two variables to show a difference like instance variable and class variable.
Now here if you see that I am creating a static nested class static nested class.
So I have created another class.
But make it static.
Static nested class.
And inside the class we have method.
So I have created a method.
Now I am trying to access the variables of a outer class.
So here if you see that now you already know through a method static static method can only access static
methods and static variables okay.
So here if you see that I am able to access class variable because it's static, but I am not able to
access the instance variable because it is related to an object.
Okay.
so that's all.
What is a static nested class.
So inside an outer class you can create another class okay.
Nested class I have given the name.
And you can make it static.
And because it's a static whatever the method you will create, you can only access the static data
of the outer class.
Static data.
Static variable.
Static method only.
Now how to invoke this.
This is very important.
How to invoke the static.
Let's say I want to invoke this method.
I want to invoke this method.
How so?
See this.
Now I am invoking this method from the main.
So see.
This is a static.
So means you don't need the object.
You don't need an object of it like of the object of the parent one.
Right.
So static you know that it's associated with a class.
It's not associated with an object.
So let's say understand with this on what I'm trying to say.
Outer class.
Outer class have a static method, let's say display.
And it has another method called print.
So you can access this display.
It is associated with the outer class.
So you can access outer class dot display.
Right.
Because this is static and it is associated with the class.
You can access it with the class name.
But for print you need an object of outer class.
So you have to create an outer class uh obj equals to new outer class.
And through obj dot print you have to do you have to create an object of this class.
And then call this because it is related to object.
Similarly inner class considered as one more kind of an uh, like kind of a, let's say a part like
you have a variable, you have a method, right?
Similarly considered as a inner class.
Also nested class.
If you have created a static, it is associated with the class, not with the object.
So you can create an object of this one through a outer class itself.
So I am creating an object of this one.
Outer class.
Dot nested class.
So here if you see, because it is static it is associated directly with the outer class.
So I am directly accessing outer class dot nested class.
Similarly I showed you like display method.
If it is static how you access outer class dot display method.
Similarly this outer class dot static class nested class.
And now I am creating an object of this nested class and calling this method okay.
So this is how you initiate and create an instance of nested static nested class.
You don't need the object of parent class to invoke to create an object of this one, but just by outer
class dot nested class you can create an object.
Okay, you got it.
So try it out.
This, uh.
This one.
Now, I told you that very, very important.
Very, very important.
I told you that the class generally can be public or default.
If you don't give anything, it would be a default, which is package private.
But if I ask you in an interview, they ask you, hey, can you define a class access modifier as private
or protected?
Also can you?
So generally what your answer would be no because class access modifier can be either public or package
private.
But remember nested classes can be created as a private, public protected anything like a method,
like a variables, right?
So here now I have created one private.
So now here, if you see that I have created a static class same a static class.
But now as a private, that's what I wanted to show you that yes, nested classes can be created as
a private or protected or public or even the package private.
The default one.
Okay, so now from the variables and methods you already know, right?
If you have created any variable private, let's say int a in a class A, then you know that this private
variable and method is only visible inside this class.
No one outside this class can access it.
Similarly, treat this nested class also also as one of a member of your class like variable like method.
Now you have created it.
Private means it.
It's object cannot be created outside of this class.
Outer class?
Like how I created an object of this.
Nested class outside this are some other class, right?
Object test another method right outside this outer class.
But this private it's object would be only created inside outer class only.
No other method.
So if I have to invoke this private method, I have to expose one method here.
And I have to create nested class object here.
And then call this one.
And from outside it has to create an outer class, this one object.
Call this method.
And inside that this class it will create an object of now nested class.
And then invoke it because since it's a private, it's object cannot be created outside this class.
It cannot be accessed outside of this class itself.
Okay.
Remember this private are nested classes can be private or protected.
Also, it's not just public.
Understood this one static nested classes.
Now let's move to non-static nested classes which is also known as inner class, inner class or non-static
nested class.
It has access to all the instance variables and methods of the outer class.
So I told you that int instance variable class variable.
Now the same thing I created an inner class.
But here if you see it doesn't have static keyword.
So if there is no static keyword means consider this as inner class okay, not as a static nested class.
Now I have a method.
Now you see that I am able to access its static variables.
Also able to access this instance variable also.
Okay.
The only difference you will see is like how to invoke this?
So now see that this is not a class member like so you need an object of parent to invoke this.
So now from other class, if I'm trying to invoke it first I need an object of the parent class.
Outer class I created an object of the outer class first because let's say outer outer class object
or object itself, you will create a method, let's say display or access certain variables if it is
not a static member.
Similarly inner class.
Also, if it is not a static, you can only access through an object of the outer class.
So I have first created an object and using that object.
Now I am creating an object of the inner class.
So outer class dot inner class.
So this is the reference.
Now see.
Using the object using the object of the parent I am creating an object of now inner right and then
able to access it.
The method print.
Okay, that's the only difference.
You will see that while initializing the non-static and the static.
Okay, so for static one you don't need a parent outer class object to initiate a inner nested class
object.
But for inner class which is not a static because it is now associated with the object of the outer
class, you have to first create an outer class object, and with that object.
Now you have to create an inner class object like this.
And then you would be able to call the inner class methods.
Got it.
So this is known as inner class.
So now if you see that there are three types of inner class local member or anonymous.
So here if you see that.
So the one which I showed you.
Right.
Uh, this is also known as member in our class.
The one this the example which I showed you.
Right.
You have an outer class, and inside this you have an inner class that is also known as member inner
class.
It can be private or public protected default.
Now see local inner class.
Local inner class.
If you are creating this inner class inside a particular block of F, so you have a if statement.
And inside this you are creating an inner class.
You have a for loop and you have its block.
Now inside this you are creating an inner class.
Now you have one method let's say display.
And then inside this you are creating an inner class.
So what I mean to say is that local inner classes, like if you are creating an inner class inside a
particular block of certain method for loop.
If condition while loop anything, then it is known as local inner class.
These are those classes which are defined in any block like for loop while loop, block, if condition,
methods, etc..
Okay, it cannot be declared as private, protected or public.
Remember this it cannot be declared as private, protected or public only.
Default access modifier is used for the local inner classes.
Okay, it cannot be initiated outside of this block.
Let me tell you about this one.
So let's say I have a class outer class the same.
I have a static and non static member variable.
Now I have created a method display and inside the display and inside this block.
Now I am creating one inner class which I called as known as Local Inner class.
Okay.
And now this local inner class has its variable and the method.
Now see this method can access instance variable static data which is of outer class, plus the method
local variable, which is whatever the block it is inside.
If it is has certain variable, it can also access that.
And it can also access its own okay.
But it cannot be initiated outside of this block.
So within this block only within this block inside this it can only be initiated.
Okay.
Within this block only it can only be initiated.
That's the only thing is it is very local.
It is local to this method.
So see, I told you about the memory management, right?
Whenever you create a method, whenever you create a method it you get a one static.
You can get one block in your static memory.
You get a block of this method let's say display okay.
Now the lifespan of this is like as soon as the block ends, as soon as the block ends, this memory
gets freed up, this memory get freed up.
So that's why this class can only be invoked inside this block only.
So its life is also inside this block.
Only right after this block, it has no life.
So it can only be invoked inside this method.
Only.
Right.
And that's why you can't create it private or public or anything.
Because it's like so when this method is invoked.
when this method is invoked.
It got a memory block inside a static one and then its life is.
Does this block only?
So there is no point of putting private public because it's a private only.
You can only create an instance of this, only inside this block itself.
Public like you can't access it outside because after it's within this block.
So you know that right?
In the method you have created any variable.
So it scope is within this block, only within this block, whatever you have defined it, they can
see.
Right.
So that's why it can't be a public because it is within a a particular block.
So its scope is also within that block.
You got it right.
And let's say how you want to invoke this one.
Let's see that one.
Okay.
So you see, you have seen that how to invoke the inner class which is inside a particular class.
First create an object and then invoke it.
Now let's see how you can invoke this one.
So now if I want to invoke this inner class I have to use this one I have to call print.
How you can do that?
From the outside class I have to create an outer class object.
I have to call this method display.
And inside the display.
What it will do is it will first create an object of.
Now this and then call print.
So the object can be created inside a block only.
It's all like grouping the variables methods right inside functionality of this method inside this class.
Now not many talk about this and not many.
We have used it also.
but see in interview perspective, everything which is ignored is not important.
From the interview perspective.
Okay, now we have seen like okay, very simple.
How to create a nested class, how to create a local, how to create a member inner class.
Before jumping to anonymous, I just want to tell there is like a thing should come into your mind here.
Now we are talking about class.
So is class.
Can it can also be inherited or not?
Yes, inheritance in nested class is also possible.
See, I have never ever used it in last eight years.
But still you know that something which we ignore or leave it and that only comes in the interview,
right?
Or in the exam?
So let me give you a brief about this inheritance so that no, we have touched all the points and at
least it would be in our back of the mind.
Yes, this is possible.
So I will explain you with three examples of this inheritance, and I think it will give you a better
knowledge that if in interview you would face this, you would be able to answer it.
So I have created an outer class.
I have created an inner class, inner class one.
I have created another inner class two which extend this inner class one it extend this.
Okay.
So now if you see that this inner class one has its own method, own variable.
This inner class two has its own variable.
But class two is a child of class one.
Right?
So if you see that I am able to access the class one method, also inner class one here, and it can
access its own variables and also the outer class one.
So you can also do inheritance like this between inner classes.
Now if I want to create an object of this one, how you will create it, you know it.
It is also an inner class.
So how to create an object of inner class?
You first need to create an object of the outer class.
So I've created an object of the outer class.
Then using that outer class object you have to create an object of the inner class.
So inner class two I have created an object okay.
And now I just call the display method.
Okay.
Now let's see about this static inner class inherited by different class.
So currently I have done an inheritance in single class single outer class.
But what if a class is inner class is present here and I have a different class now.
Can it this be inheritance be done?
Yes.
Now see this.
I have an outer class and inside this I have created one static inner class.
Or I think it's a static right?
Then it's a static nested class.
It's not inner, it's static nested class okay.
And it has one method okay.
Inside nested static nested class.
Now I have created some other class.
Now I want to extend this.
So uh so let me change the name.
This is static nested class.
I have changed the name from inner to nested class because it's a static right.
It's not a inner class.
It's a nested class a static nested class.
So I have one outer class.
I have one nested class which is static.
Now in the some other class I can extend this only this class.
How.
See it's a static right?
So outer class dot nested class.
And you can in in its method I can simply access all its method accessing the display method.
Okay, so this is possible also.
But what about if it is not non-static?
If you see that now it is static is not there.
So means this is an inner class.
So now I have a outer class.
I have created an inner class and it has one method.
Now in some other class I am extending this inner class.
Now the only difference between here is I told you in the method session that about the constructor.
Whenever you have A, you have B, whenever you call you B, if you remember what I told you before
creating an object of this, it will first create an object of.
Call the constructor of this.
Create an object of this.
So.
Right.
So It create a parent object first, then child.
So now when you are inheriting, when you are inheriting the inner class, right.
And this is not a static means.
It is related to a object of this outer class.
So what you have to do is first initiate the object of the parent.
Right.
So I have I have to create a constructor here some other class.
And you know that from the previous session method itself.
Like when you call new let's say any class right.
So by default super is added I told you right.
Do you remember by default super is added.
So let's say remember this.
So you have class A and then you have class B which extends A okay.
So now when you are creating a new be object.
So you know that by default constructor will get invoked, right?
And inside this by default constructor there is a hidden super.
It will invoke the object of constructor of this a.
So that's why understand this for this inner class.
For this inner class, this is not a static.
This is associated with the object of this outer class.
So you have to invoke the object of this first.
So that's why we have to create a constructor of this and create an object of this outer class first
and then call super.
So as you know that when child class constructor invoke it, first invoke the constructor of the parent.
But here the parent is inner class.
This is the parent, right?
I have created an inner class as a parent, so it can only be accessed by the object of the outer class,
because this inner class classes are associated with the object of this, so you can only access the
super of it.
Once you have created an object of the outer class.
So this is the way of doing an inheritance of.
Inner class.
See, I have never used it in last year, but I wanted to show you the inheritance part of it, that
it is possible.
And what are the challenges and what are the things you have to consider before?
Got it.
Non-static.
Static.
One is simple.
It is associated with the class.
You can access that outer class dot nested class.
No problem.
Right.
And even that's why you don't need a constructor here because this is associated with the class.
You don't need to create its object.
You can even the super of this one will work out right because your nested that one.
But here because this is inner, this is associated with the object of it one.
That's why we have created its object first and then call the super.
And then you can access all the method which is inside this inner class.
Okay.
Got it.
Do practice it.
And one more thing I need to tell you about anonymous.
Very very important interview question.
Anonymous.
An inner class without a name is called as anonymous class.
So currently if you have seen that all the class we have given a name.
So any class which doesn't have a name is called anonymous class.
And how we can create a class with no name.
Let's see that.
But first to see when to use when it is used.
So when we want to override the behavior of the method without even creating any subclass, then anonymous
class is helpful.
Let's understand with this example.
So I have created one abstract class car and I have one abstract method press break.
So here, if you see that I don't want to create a, let's say Audi class.
I don't want to create it and implement this press break functionality.
I don't want to create this.
So now I am I'm in a particular method.
So but I can also do this with anonymously.
I don't have to create this file by myself.
Right now what happens is now let's see how anonymous is happening.
So I have created car let's say Audi car object like it's just a reference variable.
And I have created a new car and I have start implementing this also block started.
Now I am providing the implementation of this press break, uh, specific implementation here and this
block finish.
And just remember this semicolon later on.
It's kind of a statement.
End of statement.
So now this is the way of defining an anonymous.
So you are creating an object of this new car right.
And as you know that an abstract.
You can't create an object.
So generally I'll tell you what is happening at the behind.
So you are trying to create an object of a car and you have started.
You have given the implementation of the break and statement clause.
And now you can use this variable and call this method.
Now what two things happen behind the scene first.
Now let's see.
What two things happen.
First of all a subclass is created and name is decided by the compiler, right?
So now here if you see that, hey, this is an abstract class.
I haven't created any class with any name like audio and all, but I have given a proper implementation
of this method right in a block.
So what happened?
So what happened is it created a class.
So here, if you see that when I compile this class, what it does is it created one class here for
this one test certain dollar one, some randomly compiler generated a name.
Right.
If I could name I have given Audi, but I don't want to create this file.
I want to be created dynamically like without I want to create.
So compiler internally create a file for me.
Right.
And here if you see that what it does is it extends the car.
So if I do that I have done the same Audi extends car and then provide this Implementation the same
thing it has given.
It created a class which is decided by own.
It extends the car and provides its implementation and its reference.
It create an object of this one and it provide a reference at here.
Okay.
So this is how you do an anonymous classes right.
So if you have any class and if you wanted a particular implementation of it, you don't have to create
a class out of it.
Right.
And if it's a so you can do it dynamically by this new car and provide the implementation.
Right.
And semicolon.
Whatever the reference you have that you can use to call the method.
And internally I told you what happened.
It does the same thing.
It created a class with the name decided by the compiler.
Extends the car itself.
Implemented the method.
What we have given.
Created an object of the subclass of this one, and assigning a reference into this one.
Now we can use it.
Okay, so this is known as anonymous class.
Anonymous means we are creating one class without even giving any name.
And internally compiler does that for us okay.
Got it guys.
So that's pretty much till here.
And in the next class I will tell other type of classes generic pojo enum, final singleton, immutable
wrapper.
But practice this first and any question any doubt let me know and we will do this session two of this
classes soon.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
