# Microservices Patterns: SAGA Pattern, Strangler Pattern (English Dubbed)

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Coding.
Today we are looking at Microservices Design pattern part two.
If you haven't seen part one I would suggest you watch it first.
Where we learned about the decomposition pattern and how it works.
After that, if you watch this, it will help you better understand how microservices evolve.
First, we divide them into smaller parts, which is explained by the decomposition pattern.
Today I will discuss three patterns with you and two of them are very important.
All right.
So what are these three patterns?
The first pattern is the strangler pattern.
Strangler pattern.
The second pattern is the saga pattern.
And the third pattern is seekers.
All right.
So I will discuss these three patterns with you.
The two patterns Strangler pattern and saga pattern are very, very important.
I will also tell you about an interview question related to saga, which is crucial to know if you are
working with microservices.
All right.
So let's start with the Strangler pattern.
When do we use the strangler pattern.
It is used when we are refactoring.
To microservices.
You already have a monolithic service.
And now I need to transition it to microservices.
I learned from the decomposition pattern how to divide it into parts.
So the journey from monolithic to microservices involves refactoring this.
Is what I need to refactor this code into smaller parts.
How do I do this?
The Strangler pattern guides me.
The strangler pattern suggests that we have a kind of controller here.
There is a controller.
So what can you do with this controller?
You can manage the percentage of traffic.
Let me explain it to you this way by placing the controller here.
This is the controller.
And this is my incoming traffic.
This is my API traffic.
All right, this is my API traffic.
So here, what I'll do is let's assume the controller has just a few services.
empty like some services.
I haven't built out all the components yet because there can be many flows in a monolithic.
But I have just started converting the monolithic to microservices and have enabled only one particular
flow.
Okay, so what I'll do is that particular flow.
Or traffic wise I can take 10% traffic into microservices.
Okay.
So what this controller will do is decide where to send the API traffic, whether to send it to microservices
or to the monolithic.
If let's assume I send it to the micro.
Services but the microservices fail, then I can suddenly bring it down to 0% on microservices and send
everything to the monolithic, indicating there's some breakage or a bug.
Once I solve that bug, I'll test it again.
Okay.
Start with 10% traffic.
So out of 110, APIs will go here.
90 will go there slowly.
As I gain confidence, I'll increase it to 20, then 50, and ultimately 100%.
Then what will happen is it will go to zero.
So do you understand the meaning of straggler?
In a way it means to throttle something, right?
So here we are, slowly throttling the monolithic, gradually increasing it.
As we write more flows.
It's never possible to convert the entire monolithic to microservices at once and then take the traffic.
You will never see that anywhere.
What we do is we build out small parts from the monolithic to microservices, and they keep taking the
traffic.
So what will happen is slowly if earlier it was handling 1000 transactions, 1000 APIs were coming.
We are slowly building out the flows in microservices.
As we keep sending its traffic here, it will gradually decrease from 1000 to 900.
Then as we add more features to it, it will slowly become 500, 500, then gradually 200, then it
will become 100 and slowly this will happen, this will become 100.
And then ultimately we will delete the monolithic.
If any issue arises here, I can control it by saying, hey, don't take traffic here.
There's an issue here.
So again, move traffic to the monolithic.
This pattern is called the strangler pattern.
This is how we refactor a monolithic into microservices.
Got it guys.
It's a very important pattern for how you will take one monolithic to microservices.
So that's what is told by the Strangler pattern.
I hope you understood it.
Well.
Now let's move on to the most important thing.
But before explaining saga, I call this data.
Management.
In microservices.
There are two types of.
Databases.
For each.
Individual service.
And here what we have is a shared database.
So far what have we seen.
Decomposition has happened.
We've made smaller parts.
Refactoring has been done in such a way that we bring the big into the small, but now we need a DB.
So there are two ways for the DB as well.
Okay, so here see what the first one says.
It says database for each individual service.
Now assume that I divided the monolithic into three services.
Service one.
Service two.
Service three.
These are my three microservices.
So what this says is that here each service has its own DB.
In a shared database, what happens is that there are three services S1, S2, S3.
I have only one DB and all three are using it.
So first let me tell you this is very important.
This is very important.
And where saga and KCRW's are used, I will tell you why we had to use saga and why KCRW's.
But first let me tell you why the shared database is not so successful and why do we always use this
database for each individual service?
So why isn't a shared database so successful?
All right, let's assume that I have three services here.
All three have one database.
Now, here's the first case.
That the data from service two is coming in large amounts.
Let's assume this is an online order and online e-commerce kind of application.
So service one is nothing but the order.
Service S2 is something called inventory.
And S3.
Let's assume is something related to payments.
Now let's assume that I'm not adding inventory as quickly as I am receiving orders.
All right.
Even if I have two inventories, two products, but I am receiving orders in millions, then I have
to scale my database for this order.
But if I have a common database now, I have to scale the entire thing.
All right.
Let's assume its capacity is two GB, C or whatever in memory capacity is called.
then I have to increase the whole thing.
All right.
For the entire DB, it will increase for this as well.
And for this two if I need an individual component, I can't scale it.
Correct.
You got the foresight.
All right.
Let's assume that if one team has this common database.
All right.
It has ten tables.
Table one two.
Table ten.
All right.
Let's assume S3 needs to make some modifications in table ten.
All right.
Let's assume a column needs to be deleted.
So can it delete it.
No because this database and these tables are shared between services and service.
So all right it has to check all dependencies.
If I delete it will there be any other impact apart from my service.
That's another issue that you can't quickly do what you need according to your work.
You can't do it, so it's not scalable.
All right.
If you have a small service.
All right.
And then you can use a small number of components, you know it won't scale that quickly.
Then you can use it.
But otherwise it's not that scalable.
And you found out the reason.
Two big reasons.
But what's easy here is that I have ten tables.
I need to join the query.
I can easily join them, right?
Secondly, maintaining the transactional property.
I need to handle the transactional property.
Transactional property means such a property that I can easily manage because there's one database with
ten tables.
So transactional property means if I need to insert into ten tables from table one to table ten, I
can do it with this property.
Suppose if there's a failure while updating table eight, then all of them will be updated, meaning
either all succeed or none succeed.
This is such a property.
So this easiness is there.
And this easiness for this part is complicated.
If I have three databases, suppose.
Suppose I have three databases.
So what are the challenges?
Here I can do a local transaction.
This has a local transaction.
Right.
So here I can maintain such a property.
Here I can maintain such a property here I can maintain such a property of the database.
But if I receive an order that touches all three databases, suppose it touches this one, this one
and this one, the database of service one, the database of service two and the database of service
three.
But can I have one common property.
Right.
Because such a property works on a particular database, right?
I can apply such a property to all the tables there.
But now my transaction is spanning over distributed databases.
Right.
So this is a challenge.
And who solves this challenge?
The saga pattern did.
Right.
The second thing is query join.
Here I have ten tables together.
Now suppose here table nine to table five here.
Table six to table eight here.
Table nine to table ten.
Now I need to join table six and table ten.
But these are in different domains.
How will I join them.
So I faced a bit of difficulty in joining.
And who solved it CRS did.
All right.
So I will tell you two things.
And this saga is very important.
Understand it well I will explain with examples and spend some time on it.
Okay, so now I am switching to the database for each individual service and I will tell you why it
is necessary from the interview perspective, even for the database.
For service.
So now here we have a little understanding that each service has its own database.
Okay.
And there is an agreement that no service can query another's database here.
Service two cannot query Service Three's database.
No, this is wrong if it needs any data from here.
If it needs any data from DB three, then it will tell S3 to invoke an API and tell me the related data.
Then it will return it and then.
It will use it, but no service can touch the database of any other service.
That would be wrong.
All right.
Here.
Now, what is the benefit?
Suppose this is using a relational database.
This is using no square.
MongoDB.
And these are using something else okay.
This means suppose this is using SQL.
This is using Postgres.
So everyone can use their database according to their needs.
And whenever it needs to make any modifications to its database, all it has to worry about is itself
that there is no impact on it from S2 or S3, and there is no need to ask anyone because it is its own
database, only it accesses it.
Okay, so the second thing is that maintenance has become a bit easier.
Okay, I can maintain my database well myself.
Okay.
The third benefit suppose a lot of data is coming into this DB, then I can scale this DB alone.
If there is not much traffic here, there is no entry in the database, then I don't need to scale it
that much.
So I can scale the DB of a particular service alone so that it can handle more transactions.
It can handle it can store more data.
Okay.
So you will see here that scaling has become easy.
But there are disadvantages to and I told you about two disadvantages that here the advantages were
to join the share query and how the transactional property will be.
So now we know that to maintain the transactional property to vary the saga of course, let's first
go to the saga.
Now I am telling you about the saga which is important.
Please understand it carefully.
Okay, so now why was there a need for the saga?
Because I have three boxes.
Assume that in this there is.
Table one.
Table two.
Table three.
Table four.
Table five.
Table six.
Okay.
I did not have a transaction to place an order.
Place an order.
So assume this is the order.
This is the order DB.
This is the inventory db.
This is some payment db.
So whenever an order is placed and I receive its payment you will see here.
So I will have to update this DB.
This DB will also need to update the inventory.
The order will also need to be updated.
The payment will also need to be updated because the payment has also arrived.
But assume if it happened that I updated this here I got one order.
Inserted the order row.
Order row.
Successfully created inventory.
Also successfully created in inventory.
I updated the inventory but it failed while recording the payment.
Now here.
What does this property say?
That if all succeed, all success or none?
Either successfully placed in all tables or not at all, it should roll back.
So now where will I roll back from?
This is it's local acid.
Local transaction is also maintaining its local transaction.
Okay.
If here it fails in T4, assume it needs to update in t3 T4.
If it fails in T4 then it would roll back T3 as well.
But now here we are talking about multiple DBS.
If this fails then how will it roll back this roll?
How will it roll back?
That's where comes the saga.
Here comes the saga.
All right, so now what does saga mean?
Sequence of local transactions.
What does it mean?
Sequence of local.
Transactions.
Okay, so now what it says here is that here?
All right.
Service one.
Service two.
Service three.
Okay.
Each has its own DB.
Assume now what happens here in saga.
They publish an event.
Anything happens.
Assume I have one order placement transaction.
So here it was in the order service.
So it updated its DB and published an event here.
An event was published here.
It published an event let's say order event.
So now what was here one inventory service.
What it will do is listen to this event that yes it has succeeded.
Now I need to update my DB so it will update its DB here and publish an event here one.
That the inventory has been updated.
Okay, so now as it heard the event and did its work.
Assume it failed while making the payment.
While recording the payment, it failed.
Okay, so now what it will do?
It will send a compensation event.
So now it will send one event a failure event.
Now it is listening to this failure event inventory said okay payment has failed.
Meaning I need to reverse everything now.
So the transaction it stored, it will reverse it.
Then it will also do a compensation event.
Or you can say a failure event.
The order service will listen to it and the transaction it recorded it will roll it back.
Okay.
Understood.
It's a sequence of event sequence of local transactions.
So this was one local transaction.
Local transaction, local transaction.
But I converted it into a sequence okay.
So saga is of two types choreography and orchestration.
What happens in orchestration and choreography?
These are.
Service one.
Service two.
Service three.
Here I have an event block.
Event.
Message event.
So now what is here?
If any traffic came to me, service one processed it, did it here and send the event.
Here I have the event.
So what is S2 doing?
It is listening to that event and will work on it.
And then what will it do?
If S2 completes its work?
It will publish the event.
What is S3 doing?
It is listening to those events right and will do its work based on that event.
If anything fails, it will also publish the event.
Assuming why is there a Q2?
Why is this a success?
Q why is this a failure?
So it will put it in the failure queue.
So if S2 is listening, okay, S3 has failed, then it will roll back itself and then it will also publish
that it has failed.
S1 will listen to it and will also roll back itself in a courier.
Everyone is listening to the event and doing their work, whereas in an orchestrator there is an orchestrator.
Sitting here there is a new component S1, s2, S3.
Here there is a drawback.
Here there is a drawback that there is a circular.
You can call it circular or you can call it a cycle dependency circular.
You can call it a cycle dependency can form.
That S1 sent an event to S2, S2 sent it to s1.
Then S1 gave an event to s2, s2 to s1.
So in this way a cycle can form.
So in an orchestrator this cycle dependency is removed.
Now here what is there is that orchestration is the one who will call S1, right?
And based on this, the reply from S1 that it was successful here.
Based on that it will call S2, right.
The update from S2 will call S3.
If S3 fails, then the orchestrator will make sure that it will roll back S2.
If S2 fails, it will make sure that it will call S1 to do the rollback here.
Understand what we were doing, that everyone was maintaining their state with each other through events.
Here an orchestrator has come, so here the orchestrator is managing S1 update H2h3.
If it fails it will tell s2 t2.
Now roll back.
Okay, so here comes the orchestrator.
We implement cigar in two ways choreography and orchestrator.
Now I'll tell you an interview question as an example that can be asked okay.
So you need to be prepared.
Assume I have one user, for example person A.
Person A needs to make a payment to person B.
So here a payment needs to be made.
Meaning if person A has to pay person B, I assume it's ₹10.
Okay, so you use Paytm different UPI not UPI you use ATM, use phone P, use GP or something like that
in that you have a balance.
You can keep your balance correct.
All right.
So now what happens here?
₹10 will be deducted from your balance and will be received by person B.
Now if I need to store this how will I store it in microservices?
Here I can create two components.
One will be your balance.
Which stores your balance, showing how much balance you have so far.
How much balance amount is there so far in rupees and assume you have ₹100 overall in this and here
I can create one service payment.
So what does this do?
The job of payment is to record the payment.
Person A has made a payment to person B, so it will record that person A paid person B ₹10.
This date, meaning it will store a type of transaction in its database that this payment was made.
This person paid this much on this date.
So now what is the challenge here?
The microservices challenge.
So it will be.
Okay.
Now I initiated the payment here.
Initiated the payment here okay.
So first assume where it will go.
This is payment.
This is balance Here.
I have ₹100.
I received a request.
That person A makes payments to person B of ₹10.
So first it will check if it has ₹10 in balance.
So the request will first go to the balance.
So what will it do here?
It has ₹10 and it will deduct it from here.
-₹10.
How much does it have now?
₹90.
It updated its database.
This database got updated?
Yes.
Okay.
From ₹100.
Now it will have ₹90.
Now it's done.
Now it went that the balance got deleted here.
And record the payment now while recording the payment, it failed.
It failed.
Meaning there is no history of whether you made the payment or not.
So now what will you do?
The balance got deducted.
Now what will you do?
How will you resolve this issue?
So pick any architecture of microservices in high level design.
This scenario will come up and they can ask you.
Hear you.
What will you do?
I will make use of saga.
Here.
The payment failed.
Payment will publish an event.
Something like a failure event.
The balance might be listening.
So this event?
Write choreography.
What will it do?
Okay.
The event failed for a particular transaction.
Let's assume this was a transaction.
Right?
So it's a transaction.
One failed something of ₹10.
Complete detail.
So now what did it do?
Okay.
What did the balance component see.
Oh it failed.
I had deducted it.
Now what will it do?
It will do a compensation transaction.
It will reverse it.
So it will add ₹10 back.
It will make it ₹100 again to the balance.
Okay, well, saga is used and they can ask you this.
All right.
Understood, guys.
Saga is very important.
And the last microservices pattern I am covering is.
See?
KCRW's.
Okay, now what does it say?
It says command.
Query.
Request.
Segregation.
What is there in the command?
Create.
Update.
Delete here in the query.
What is there?
Select.
It divides this.
Now why is this needed?
Why do we need it.
What was the other disadvantage on the microservices database per service?
If I have to join in the middle of a query, how will I do it here?
If I have two databases, one for service one and one for service two, I have table one here and table
two there.
Can I join them?
No, because s one can never directly query.
So what will I do here?
Here I will create a separate view a separate view that I am calling a separate view.
So all the create.
Update and delete operations will be done in their respective databases.
Create.
Update.
Delete.
But all the read operations will be in a new database, which we call the new DB view.
Let's assume this is orders.
This is inventory.
So let's say this is a common or history common view.
So now what happens is that a query will be here.
And it will have data from table one and table two.
Right.
So you can join here.
So in the course this is common query request segregation command means this is a command.
Query means this is a query.
We separated them by creating a second database that is only for read.
And that has all the data from table one and table two from different databases.
But now there's a challenge of how it will keep itself updated if something is created here.
It should also be updated, right?
So here there can be an event.
Whenever something is created, updated or deleted here, it will publish an event.
And this one will listen to the event and perform the same operation on itself.
Similarly, in T2, in the T2 database, whenever something is created, updated or deleted, it will
also publish an event and this will listen to the event and similar changes will come here in the common
history table, which is made for reading.
So here we can use events.
What else can we use?
DB triggers, DB triggers.
Or you can write a procedure that whenever create, update or delete happens a procedure will run that
will make similar changes here.
So did you understand the meaning of ACF?
So what I wanted to tell you from this common design pattern is that the straggler is very, very,
very important in microservices.
And you should know about Cqrs.
Yes.
If you need to join multiple things.
And when we do questions, there will be scenarios where we will need queries and we will look at it
in more detail then.
Okay, so I'm telling you there are many patterns in microservices design patterns.
I've only told you the important ones.
And as we keep solving questions, you will keep learning more patterns and solve them accordingly.
Please understand saga and straggler.
Well, if you have any doubts, do ask me again but make sure the concept is clear.
Okay guys, I hope you liked this.
Please share and subscribe.
I really need your support.
Have a nice day.
Bye guys.
