Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to do the second topic of Spring Boot setting up our project.
And I will also tell you about the layered architecture which Spring Boot generally we follow.
Okay.
So let's start without wasting any time.
Setting up the Spring Boot project is very, very easy.
That's my experience right after this session.
When you try to set up, let me know your experience.
Also like, do you find it easy or hard right?
So how you can set up is first you can directly go to spring initializer URL.
So this is the URL start.spring.io.
So this type of page will get open okay.
So what you have to do is you have to select the language.
So I'm comfortable with Java.
So I'm using Java and the dependency like so maven I am generally use as a dependency, all the management
and all.
So you can choose either Gradle and Maven, whichever you like.
Like so I generally follow Maven.
Okay.
So if you don't know Maven, don't worry.
If you, uh, know from our playlist or like we will discuss about the Maven in-depth, uh, at least
how our Maven architecture or Pom.xml looks like.
Okay.
So I have chosen Maven for that one project.
Choose the version of Spring Boot.
So let's pick the latest 13.2.3 okay, so fill up these details.
Your project metadata.
So these are group and artifact is something which uniquely identifies your project okay.
So generally group is something your company name and anything.
So I just use com dot concept and coding artifact is generally uh the project name.
Right.
So I have just given the name as a learning spring boot.
You can give anything, right?
The group but combining group and artifact individually identifies a particular project.
Okay, this name and description we can give accordingly what project we are building.
Okay.
So ultimately this is how our package name gonna look like.
Okay.
So after this one you have to decide the packaging jar or VAR.
If anybody who don't know what's the difference between jar and var and when to use.
So just one minute so that I will explain this one.
It will get clarifies to you.
So jar means Java archive var means a web archive.
So in the world of microservices and stand wherever you need standalone Java application you have to
use only jar, right?
When I say that what is mean by standalone Java application?
Let's say that we are writing one application Java application and we just started its server.
That's all.
So this is a standalone application.
It doesn't need anything else.
You send it the request it will give you the response.
But in case of var you need let's say the complete web archive like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, some JSP
pages.
Right.
If you need a complete bundle complete package for the web application, then it is then go for var
right?
We used to use it way back long, but nowadays in the world of microservices, each micro, each component,
each microservice is an individual standalone application.
Okay.
So in today's world mostly you will find we are using jar only Java archive which are Java standalone
application.
You don't need HTML, CSS, JavaScript, everything to be done together.
No Java Java classes.
It's libraries, all its resources.
That's all.
Pick the Java version which you are comfortable with it so it giving two options 1721 I picked 17 okay.
And then there comes the dependencies.
So for now I have chosen one dependency spring web.
So spring web says that uh, help in building the web RESTful APIs.
Right.
Uh, we will get the embedded, uh, server, uh, servlet container Tomcat.
Right.
So we are getting all this things.
So this is basic sufficient to create a web application microservice.
We can create a server with with this spring web.
Okay.
Let's say that we want to connect with DB and all.
There would be more like a spring jay, so we can add more dependencies directly in the maven if required.
So just for the starting setting up the project, we can start with one.
So in our Maven Pom.xml only initial dependency will get added for this one.
And as soon as we progress we require more dependency.
We will add in our Maven pom.xml file.
Okay.
And after that you will.
There will be one generate option.
You can generate it and the project will get downloaded to your system.
Now you can open your favorite IDE.
My favorite IDE is IntelliJ.
And you know that those who are using IntelliJ.
There is another way of setting up the Spring Boot project is uh, you can click on the file in the
new you will see project.
And when you click on the project there is something called spring.
Right.
So it is not available in the community version.
It is available in the ultimate version.
I think it required uh, some payment, but uh, for community version this is locked.
Okay.
So those who have ultimate version, they can even create a spring boot directly from their system,
uh, from their IDE itself or otherwise.
You can just simply, uh, do open you can just, uh, open the project.
Right, which you, which is downloaded.
So the downloaded would contain.
So these all things which I have written, this will not be there.
So it would be this would be ultimately get downloaded when you open the project which is downloaded
in the IDE.
So these two things you will get a Pom and you will get a spring boot application class.
That's all.
And this is the package which we have defined there.
Right.
So this simple, very basic things now comes into this.
If you run it your if you run this Tomcat is started okay.
Server is getting started.
Right.
But since we haven't written any control or anything, nothing would uh, you can't hit any API but
project setup that easily.
Okay.
Or you see that all the dependencies, whichever we have set, it's available here.
Only two dependencies comes with the web, uh, this one and the test to writing a unit test cases.
If we required more in future, we can add more here.
Okay.
So setting up the project is that easy in Spring Boot.
And one thing also today I will, uh, wanted to explain you is what is layered architecture in Spring
Boot.
Okay.
So in spring boot generally this layered architecture is something which is mostly used right?
And in many big MNCs you will find this layered architecture only.
So what is this layered architecture?
So let's say these are the clients.
They are hitting any API okay.
So this is the first layer which is controller layer.
So this controller layer has all the classes which has annotation like at the rate controller at the
rate rest controller like this.
So these are the classes which host your endpoints right.
Like we have seen previously.
Like like slash payment slash payment slash some endpoint one.
Like these.
All classes only host that API and client hit that API right.
They will interact your component with the these APIs itself.
And controller layer is the first starting point.
Uh which host hosts those APIs.
Second layer is your service layer.
So these classes generally has at the service annotation.
And this is where we put our business logic.
So all your business logic whatever patterns whatever the business specific logic, anywhere anything
which you have to put, you have to put inside the service layer.
Right.
Not in controller, not in repository service layer.
This is the third layer which is called repository layer.
So there generally you will find classes which is annotated with like at the repository annotations.
And its work is to connect with the DB right.
So maybe my SQL may be NoSQL whatever.
So this layer actually interact with the DB, fetch the data and return to the service layer or if it
has to insert repository layer takes the responsibility to insert the data also.
So repository layer generally and should be interacted with DB.
So many times people what we do is we from service layer.
Also we sometimes start doing get calls and insert calls into DB.
See nobody is stopping it, right?
We can do whatever we want, but it's a not.
You can say that the correct way of doing it, as per the layer architecture repository layer should
be the one which should touch DB.
Okay, so apart from this three layers, there are certain uh, other you can say that packages which
we create as spring.
So one very important is this DTO this is not a layer.
This is you can say that the additional packages we create okay.
So one is DTO.
What is dto?
Let me explain you.
Okay, so see DTO is generally you can say that data transfer object.
Okay.
So now let's say that client is hitting certain post API and they are sending certain body the data
in the body.
Let's say certain ID 123 certain number uh number card or card number.
Let's say certain my card number 54321.
So certain information coming it from the post API.
The client which is sending.
So in the DTO data transfer object.
So generally there are two type we can create.
One is request DTO one is response DTO.
So in the request DTO, what we do is we map App.
The data, which is coming from the client or outside our component to this DTO request DTO so that
our business layer repository whatever gonna work with gonna work with the request DTO not with the
fields which are coming from the external API, like the clients which you are initiating.
Why?
Because let's say that in future the schema got changed and let's say its ID name got changed to certain,
uh, certain this thing like identification, uh, from ID name change to identification or let's say
sequence number.
Okay.
So we have to change at all the places where this ID is used.
So it has to be changed to sequence number.
But if you are using request DTO then at the controller layer itself.
So controller layer takes the responsibility of doing the mapping.
ping from, uh, the parameters from API parameter to request DTO.
And now everywhere everyone works on the request DTO.
So only this controller class will get impacted if any of the schema got changed.
Because this is the place where we are doing the mapping.
Okay.
Similarly, the response DTO.
So now let's say that service layer calls the response repository layer.
Hey fetch me the data repository layer, get the data and return it.
Is it a good way that in the DB, let's say if we have a column name as uh card certain card ID, let's
say I'm just taking that card ID so is it a good way that we return the card ID in the response itself,
our DB column name?
No.
So what we do is the service layer do the mapping, whatever the values which are coming from repository
of a DB, map it to the response DTO what ultimately goes out of your system?
Right.
And we will map it and return it in the response.
DTO.
Okay.
So you got like what DTO is data.
Data transfer object then utility.
Utility is like in the utility as the name says, that put anything which is common across service layer
or repository.
In service layer you might be creating multiple classes.
Class one, class two, class three, class four.
And they might be have certain.
They might want to use certain common method.
Right.
So that common method we can put into utility generally helper methods.
So they can call that utility methods.
So generally utility method you can say that helper methods which is generally common among more than
one classes.
Okay then you have entity.
So in the entity is uh, so classes generally annotated with like this annotation entity.
And these are the pojos.
And let's say for example class employee.
So now let's say it has uh id string employee name and the getters and setters.
So it's just a Pojo.
Certain fields ID name and it's get get method and set method.
And we have annotated with at the entity.
So this is a direct representation of our table.
Which table employee table employee table would have two columns.
One would be ID another would be name.
Right.
So this entity.
Whatever the classes we put into the entity packages, they are the direct representation of our table.
And what generally happens is let's say you want to insert the data service layer, want to insert the
data.
So what they do is they will create an object of entity.
They put the values here and then call repository.
They insert this object like so.
Now internally whether JDBC, JPA which you are using, they will ultimately map to the corresponding
columns and the table.
They will update it.
Similarly when you are fetching the data from the repository.
So it has to let's say you are fetching select.
Asterisk from employee something.
Now it will return certain rows let's say list of what list of what.
It will return some rows.
Right.
List of what Word list of this employee entity.
List of employee entity.
This query will ultimately return.
So our spring JPA JDBC internally do this mapping.
So we will come to that point how they do it.
But understand that what entity is entity is just classes which are direct representation of our tables.
So they have the same field name is exactly the same what we have in the column of that particular table.
So they are just normal simple Pojo classes fields and their getter and setter.
Right.
So generally entities are used by repositories mostly.
And then we have configuration.
So there is something called application dot property files.
We will see that.
So there we can put configuration.
So like certain you want to increase uh certain timeout value uh or you want.
So there are a lot of configurations comes in.
Right.
So in our code let's say uh you want to put certain value let's say int val equals to ten.
This hard coded generally is avoided in your code base.
There should not be any hard coded value.
It should be driven through configuration so that in future it can be changed without doing code changes.
Okay.
So that's where we can put configuration in application dot properties.
We can put that okay.
Let's say that value equals to ten today okay.
And in here we can use instead of ten certain like config dot value I'm just taking so that it will
read from config.
It will read that value.
In future you need to change from ten to let's say 20.
You don't need code changes.
Simply config dot value right in the config you can change it.
No code changes required.
We can directly push the configuration.
Okay.
So this is the generally the layered architecture.
Okay.
So I've created controller.
So created a controller.
So this controller package has the class which has at the rate rest controller.
Okay.
So it has one get mapping ID.
So now what it will do first.
So this ID right.
So what first it is doing is using the DTO right.
So what I am doing is so here Paymentrequest is a DTO.
This is a request DTO because I am not forwarding this ID into my service layer.
Because if in future this ID value get changed, I don't want my service layer to get changed also.
So in the DTO, first I set this.
So I'm setting this value into here in my internal DTO.
Okay.
So first mapping is done.
Then what controller does is it passes to the service layer that hey fetch, get the payment details
by ID and this is my internal DTO.
Go ahead.
Now the request goes to your service.
This is the service.
Payment service.
So what payment service do is payment service interact with the repository.
So there it has dependency on repository.
So it tells repository that hey get the payment by this ID and this is the DTO right.
And uh it goes to the repository.
So this is the repository has payment repository.
So here if you see at the repository and on the service at the rate service was there.
So now what repository will do.
Repository has to connect with the DB and fetch the details.
So for example execute query, I have just written that it will connect with db and fetch the data.
We will see how it will connect maybe in the later classes.
Uh, but uh in the this session we will see that okay.
Assume that it connected to the DB and fetch the data.
So ultimately the data comes into the hit the query and we get into the entity.
Because in Java everything is object, right?
Whatever the data you get from DB you will get into some object.
So that's why I created entity payment entity.
So now let's say that I have a table which has this 41234 uh details.
So it will return me certain entity okay.
And ultimately what it will do is it will return this entity back to the service.
Now what service will do.
Service.
Service will do a mapping.
Mapping from our entity which correspond to our DB table to the response DTO.
So here payment response.
So this is our DTO.
And but the response okay.
So in this fields I will send back to the client.
So this fields name would be different than what my DB tables names are DB table column names are so
but I do just a mapping.
So okay.
And after doing the mapping the service returns to the.
Your controller.
Ultimately it goes to the controller.
And what controller will do.
It will send the response back okay to the client and send the response.
Spring boot application.
Now let's start it.
So started.
Now let's hit this API.
So my Tomcat started on 8080.
Now Let's see.
Hit it.
So see we got the response payment ID amount currency and all.
So this might be details get from DB and we return in the response.
So in the payment repository we have set this values right.
So we assume that we get this data from db in the entity.
And then we return back right.
And here if you see that I am setting here set payment amount payment amount.
But the what field I'm getting amount.
Why.
Because I have done a mapping in the service uh service layer right.
So I have done a mapping this amount currency.
So these fields are different than what my db db uh table columns is okay.
So if you have any issue with setting up this project, uh, let's discuss in the comment section.
Okay.
Thank you.
Bye.