# Chain Of Responsibility Design Pattern (Behavioral Design Pattern)

This site.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today we are going to do the chain of responsibility pattern which is a behavioral design.
Pattern means focus on how to objects communicate with each other okay.
So in this a request is passed through along a chain of handlers okay.
Each handler decide either to process the request or pass it to the next handler in the chain.
Understand this with this real life example, like you might be working in a company.
Okay, so where we have multiple you can say that locks level.
We have debug log level.
We have info log level, we have error log level.
And similarly we in future we can increase the chain.
We have a fatal log level.
Right.
And whenever a request let's say we want to log, we just say that we start from the first chain.
Understand this line that with this we pass the request to a chain of handler.
We just pass it to this chain.
Hey, then this will check.
Hey, can I handle this request or can I handle this log request?
If yes, then it will handle it and return it from here.
If no, then it will pass to the next handler in the chain.
Okay, then it will check.
Hey, can I handle this log request?
If yes, then no further processing will happen.
It will just process it and return it from here.
Otherwise it will pass the request to the next handler in the chain.
That's where it says that.
So it's a pattern that passes request along a chain of handler.
Each handler decides either to process or pass it to the next handler in the chain.
Okay.
And yeah, one real life example is you can say that atm.
So in this let's say understand the ATM example, real world would be let's say user need to withdraw,
let's say ₹50 okay.
And you have different handler, let's say ₹20 handler, ₹50 handler.
And then you have, let's say ₹100 handler.
Okay.
So now let's say that a request goes here.
Let's say user need to withdraw ₹50.
Can you handle it if, let's say if there is no sufficient ₹20 present, it will pass the request to
50.
Hey, can you handle it?
Okay, likewise.
So we will see that ATM example later.
Okay.
But this is just one example.
Like in what all scenarios.
Uh, you can take a hint that.
Yes chain of responsibility pattern we need to apply okay.
So let's try to implement this how we can implement this.
But here is the UML diagram if you see that.
So all this handlers okay we design it like so here we have an abstract handler okay.
And we have multiple Implementation for it like multiple child classes.
So we can have, let's say debug info.
Error fatal.
If you have in more handler you can add it.
So like let's say the individual handler debug info error and more.
Okay.
So after a debug also there is so this is debug is a log processor info is a log processor.
So these are is a relationship okay.
Also one important thing is that let's say the debug handler is not able to handle the request.
It need to forward the request to the next one.
So it will need to forward to the next handler.
So that's why it also has object of itself.
Has a relationship okay.
So see this with example.
It would be fully clear.
So I have an abstract class log processor okay.
Now here if you see that I also have one object to itself.
So it has has a relationship with itself.
Log processor.
Next log processor okay.
And then I have one method implemented here log message.
And here I have a level and the message which it comes okay.
So I have provided different levels.
So each one each logger will I will provide one level.
Let's say I will give it debug level which is one.
Then info as two error is three level.
And for some number I have given.
Okay.
Now here if you see whenever a log request comes.
So here whenever a log request comes hey log the request or this one whenever a request comes okay I
will check if level is matching or not because we need to know that.
Hey, can I handle this request or not?
You can have any logic, but for the very simplification Understanding.
This is how I am determining that I can handle the request or not if level matching.
So let's say that in this case user is passing log dot message and it is passing let's say level dot
debug.
Let's say okay.
Then it goes to this handler and it checks hey okay.
The message which user wants to log is of level debug.
Yes I can handle it.
And once I can handle it I will call the right method okay.
Now let's say user passes uh log dot message and passes the level info okay.
Now the request goes to because the request always goes from start of the chain itself.
It's not like directly jumping here.
It goes from the start of the chain.
So debug can I handle this, uh, level info.
No.
Then it forward it to next handler.
Hey, can I handle this level info?
Yes.
Then it will process the right.
Okay.
so now let's say that if it is fatal, if it is fatal info, what info will do?
It will can it handle this fatal level?
No.
It will forward the request to the next one.
So that's what I am doing.
If it is not able to handle this message then it will pass it to the next processor.
If next processor is not null, if next processor is not null, it will call its log message.
Hey, now your check.
Okay so here if you see I have this log processor I have multiple log processor debug info error log
fatal okay.
If in future you have more you can have more log processors.
Okay.
Now here if you see I have a constructor.
So whenever I will create a debug log processor I am creating a debug log processor.
I need to tell is there any next processor or not?
So whenever I create an object I will give two things level and the next log processor.
So now let's say the level which I give is let's say one okay.
And the next processor while creating an object I provide the object of the next one let's say info
one.
It's object I will provide okay.
And this level and next processor is present here.
So that will get set.
And the right method which is here abstracted.
It's like whatever like okay once you know that you can handle this request then how you want to write,
you can write it.
I'm just simply writing that debug message.
Similarly info log processor.
Info log processor also has this constructor level and log processor so level.
While creating a constructor we will decide what level we want to give.
Let's say level two okay.
And the next processor.
So if we want to assign it the next processor we can have it in the chain okay.
Similarly, let's say next one is error.
Next one.
Let's say that if you don't want to pass, we will pass null here ultimately.
So the next one would be null.
So we can create a chain like this.
So this is how I am doing that.
So first if you see I am going from the back, first I create a fatal lock processor object.
So this is fatal lock processor object.
And the fatal lock processor object it constructor take two thing level and the next processor.
So level I give is log processor dot fatal this one log processor dot fatal four okay.
So I give four and I pass null.
So means after that there is no more.
Next processor.
This is the end of the chain.
You can say that after this it's the end of the chain.
Now I have created error log processor.
Error log processor.
It's level I provided the error one which is three log processor, dot error is three and the next the
next processor.
I provided an object of this battle one, so I provided an object of this one.
Similarly for info, the level I've given two and in its next I provided the error one.
This one and similar for the debug.
The level I provided is one and it's the next processor.
I provided this info.
So here if you see it's a chain.
And always when we submit a request it's always from the front of the chain.
Okay.
Now let's say I am forwarding the request logger dot log message here logger dot log message.
So this logger is this front one which is nothing but a debug log processor.
So I'm calling its method log message.
And I'm passing this whatever the level user want to store this message let's say debug this is a debug
message.
So it will goes here first.
okay.
It will check a level equals to equals to level for debug.
What's the level one.
Okay.
And here I have also passes debug one only.
So yes it can handle it.
So it will properly call the right method which is this one.
So it will print this next time.
Let's say you are passing logger dot log message info.
This is info message.
So it will goes to the debug one.
It will check if level one equals to one what you pass.
So logger.info is two.
Will it be able to handle.
No.
So what it will do.
It will call the next log processor okay.
If it is not null it will call its log message.
So it will call info.
Next is here in the debugger is info object.
So it will call its log processor message.
And then again it will check level equals to equals to level.
Yes its level is two.
And what we passed also to yes it can handle.
So it will call the.
Right message.
And here it will print or handle whatever it like to print.
Okay.
So very very simple.
All you have to get the context from the interviewer that if you are not able to clear from the question,
clarify and see is the interviewer what he is trying to put?
Is it somewhere we have something like chain and where request always goes from a start and check one
by one by one at at any level.
If any handler able to handle it, then we are stopping here and returning to the user.
If that's the case, then chain of responsibility is the best pattern for it.
Okay, I hope this example is clear.
You can try it out.
Very very simple example.
And it's just like this UML diagram.
Very simple okay.
If you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss in further comment section.
Thank you.
Bye.
