Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
This is Shreyansh.
And today in the Spring Boot series we are going to cover the async annotation.
There are lot more things to cover in async annotation and lot more things happen behind it.
We will see in depth.
But before I proceed further this three Java topics, I would say that it's a prerequisite.
If you want to understand the async annotation properly, you should know how to create a thread and
its life cycle.
What is thread pool and thread pool executor and what is future callable and completablefuture and how
it works.
Okay, so let's start this.
So here in this first let me in very brief I will tell you about thread pool and thread pool executor.
And I want to make sure that we are all in same page.
Right.
We have the same understanding of the thread pool and thread pool executor, but please check out this
three videos which are in depth and it is available in Java series, which is a prerequisite to understand
async annotation.
Okay, what is Threadpool?
Threadpool is a collection of threads which are available to perform the submitted tasks.
Once the task completed, threads get back to the thread pool and wait for the new task to assign.
Means thread can be reused.
Okay, so let's understand with this diagram.
So in so there is something understand is there is something kind of pool in which we have pre-created
the threads, we have pre-created the threads and available to pick the task.
Now there is some available and application also involved which is submitting the task.
So this task gets submitted into this queue first.
Now any thread which is free in this pool will pick the task from the front of the queue and start processing
it at once the task is completed, the thread goes back to this pool and now is available to pick any
other task from the queue.
Okay, so this thread pool executor involves couple of things.
Like to understand this, there is something called right minimum pool size.
Minimum pool size means what should be the minimum number of threads which should be pre-created.
Maximum pool size.
What is the maximum number of threads we can create?
That is the number which says maximum pool size.
Queue size.
What should be the length of this queue?
How many tasks it can accommodate.
So this size tells this So determining this thing is very a good interview question.
Also.
And determining these three things involve lot of consideration like what is your CPU memory and all
these things which I have explained this in this video thread pool executor in the Java series.
Okay, so but for understanding this thread pool executor, let's say that minimum pool size is two,
maximum pool size is four and the queue size is three.
Just for now.
And let's understand the behavior so that we all are in the same page that how the thread pool executor
works.
So now let's say that you have a queue with size 3012 and you have a pool of two threads thread one,
thread two, which is currently available minimum pool size.
So it is free.
Now let's say task is coming.
Task one comes.
So task one goes into the queue and thread one will pick it.
So task one is now getting processed by thread one.
So this is now busy.
Now task two is coming.
Task two will be put into the queue right?
And task two will be picked by thread two.
So thread two will take it and start processing it.
Now both threads are busy.
Now let's say they haven't completed it.
So the pool is currently there is no free threads available.
Okay, now let's say that task three is coming.
So task three will go into the queue.
So currently both this task one and two has already been removed because they have been processing.
So task three is coming.
So now here if you see task three is there any thread available which can pick this task.
Currently no.
Both the threads thread one and thread two are busy, so task three will wait into the queue.
Now let's say task four is coming, so task four will go into the back of the queue.
Is there any thread available which can pick?
No.
Both are busy so it will wait into the queue.
Now task five is coming again.
It will goes into the back of the queue and it will wait till any thread is free.
Now task six is coming.
Now what would happen to the task is is there any thread available?
No thread.
Both the threads are busy so minimum pool size.
Both the threads are busy.
Is there any available size available space in the queue?
No queue is full.
There is no space.
So what shall we do for the task?
Six shall we discard it?
No.
Then it goes and check the max pool size.
Hey, what is the max pool size?
Can I create more thread?
Yes, Max pool size says that the maximum number of thread in a pool can be four, so currently we have
only two, so it will create a new thread.
Uh thread three and now thread three will pick it.
Task six will get picked by thread three.
So task is gonna pick thread three and it is not there into the queue.
Now let's say that task seven is coming.
Task seven it will say hey any thread available thread.
So thread three is already processing task six.
Hey any available thread there in the pool?
No.
Any space available in the queue?
No.
So shall we discard the task seven.
It will check what should be the maximum pool size for what is available currently.
Three we can create one more.
So it will create new thread thread four and that will Processing task seven thread four.
Okay, so this is also getting processed.
Now let's say task eight is coming.
What would happen to the task eight.
Is there any new thread or free thread available?
No.
Is there any space available in the queue?
No.
It will check what is the maximum pool size I can create for?
So what is the number of thread 1234?
Already you have reached to the max.
Now you can't do anything.
This will get rejected.
Now let's say that the thread one has processed the task, one completed and it is now available now.
Thread one is now available into the queue back again.
So thread one is now available.
Now it goes back to the pool again.
So what thread one will do.
It will check the queue and it will take the front of the queue.
So task three.
So task three will get now processed by thread one.
So now it is now getting processed.
So this is a very basic understanding of thread pool and thread pool executor, which I have explained
in depth here.
And this is the semantics.
Like this is how we create a thread pool in Java.
We create a new thread pool executor object, provide a minimum pool size, maximum pool size and what
should be the queue size?
There is something called Keepalive time time unit hours which you will get to know in this video itself,
right?
But for their simplicity and the basic understanding and just kind of a quick recap, these three things
are important.
Minimum pool size, maximum pool size, and queue size, which I have already told you how these three
plays a crucial role in this task sequencing.
Okay, now let's start Not understanding how async annotation works.
So async annotation is used to mark method that should run a synchronously or asynchronously means in
a new thread.
So when you start a particular application, let's say so it's always starting in a one.
Let's say thread one, or sometime we call it as a main thread.
Right.
So always one thread will get picked and start your program.
Now what happens is whenever you have put a certain method as async right?
We are telling that hey, create a new thread.
It will create some new thread.
Let's say thread two and that method will get executed in And by this new thread.
But our main thread is get now unblocked and will continue processing further.
Okay, so here let's say we have a sync method.
So a sync method it will initiate a new thread.
And that will now continue processing whatever we have task available in that method.
So it is getting executed by the new thread which is got spawned.
But the main thread which is running that get unblocked and that will continue processing ahead.
Okay, so runs in a new thread without blocking the main thread.
So take this example.
So here first thing first we have to put this annotation in our main application spring boot application
where we have put this annotation right at the rate spring boot application.
So we have to put an annotation right at the rate enable a ussing.
What is the purpose of this annotation?
The purpose of this annotation is once you once Spring Boot sees that hey, this annotation is present.
It will create a bean for Ussing classes which is required for processing the async task.
There are so many things Ussing interceptors, and there are so many other classes which get involved,
but they will only get their objects or their beans will get only be created when you will put this
annotation.
Otherwise spring unnecessarily will not create an or create a bean for those classes.
Okay, so whenever we have to use an async functionality for the async annotation, we have to tell
the spring that hey, create a bean for those async classes also.
So enable Ussing is the annotation Now I have written one very, very simple method Rest controller.
Very simple API.
You already know that it get mapping, get user and very simple method.
So here I am printing inside get user method whenever we will invoke this API slash API slash get user
it.
This will get invoked and it will print inside get user method.
And I'm printing what is the thread name.
So generally this is the main thread name right.
The main thread.
Now here if you see that I am invoking an another method which is inside user service class and it is
calling the async method.
So this is the user service class right user service class managed by spring async method.
So this is the method which is getting invoked.
And now this method I have put at the rate async.
Now once I have put at rate Ursing mean, I am telling spring that hey, this method should get be processed
by new thread instead of the main thread which is running.
So this thread is the main thread which which is running.
Now when this method gets invoked, this thread should be the new thread.
So this I am just printing the thread name inside async method name.
And what is the thread name?
So this should be different than the main thread.
So if we run this and see the output inside Getuser method.
This one inside Getuser method.
So this is like your main thread.
And here inside async method task one.
So here the thread name is task one async method.
What is the thread name?
Task one.
So here if you see that these are the two different threads.
Now if you run continuously.
So here I am running continuously.
So I have hit the endpoint.
Get user.
Then again I hit the endpoint.
Get user just to show you that every time you will hit it will create a new thread here.
Earlier it was created thread one, that thread two, then thread three, then thread four.
So every time a new thread will get created inside a async method task.
Task five.
So this is the thread name it has given new async method 678 right?
New async method.
Generally I am printing the thread name.
So here if you see every time you will hit it will just create a new thread.
Okay.
So this is what async annotation does.
Looks very simple right?
But not so.
Now let's come to this question.
How does this async annotation create a new thread?
Here.
When I put an async annotation and whenever a main thread is invoking this, it creates a new thread
like okay thread created inside async thread.
Which which thread this thread.
So it is different than what's the parent thread?
So how does this async annotation creates a new thread?
Many places you will find that Springboot uses by default simple async task executor which create new
thread every time blindly, right?
So here if you say I have just put at the async nothing else, I haven't provided any thread executor
like or thread pool executor that this should be the minimum number of pool, maximum number of pool,
or even pool is present or not.
I haven't told that so many places you will see.
They will say that hey, spring boot!
By default, using simple async task, executor means blindly create a new thread every time it is required.
I will say this is not a fully correct answer and you might get stuck in a follow up.
Questions.
But let's understand like what is the right answer and how this exactly work internally?
Okay, but before I proceed further here, if you see if you see below the Spring Boot framework code.
So this is one spring boot internally one some async class here.
If you see async execution interceptor inside this you will find this code.
What it say first it will try to identify get default executor.
If it able to find some default executor when we when I say default executor considered as a thread
pool executor where you have a minimum pool size.
Maximum pool size, what should be the queue size?
Like this.
So first spring.
Also try to see hey, can I use any default executor?
If default executor is null then only it use spring async task.
Simple async task executor this one.
But what?
But in what all scenario it able to find a default executor here.
If you see this.
If you see this example above where I have just put at the rate enable async and at that async.
So it is using task one, task two, task three and task five, task six, task seven, task eight.
And if you go proceed further, it will again start from task one.
Task two.
Task three means there you will see that the question should have come to you if you do debug, right?
Hey, I am using at the rate ircing and from everywhere else.
According to their logic, a spring boot should have used simple async task executor, so it should
have create new thread every time.
So it should be like eight, nine, ten, 11, 12.
But after eight why?
Again it's going back to the one.
Is there any some kind of thread pool involved.
So answer lies here and we will see that first spring boot.
See any default executor it can use if it if the answer is yes it will use that.
If the answer is no then it will use simple async task executor.
Now let's see different use cases and we will find our answer.
Use case one.
I am creating a simple spring boot application.
I have just put at the rate.
Enable async letting.
Spring boot knows that hey, create a bean for async classes because I am going to use an async operation.
If you see my app config at the rate configuration, it's empty.
I haven't provided any kind of functionality or my custom thread pool executor.
Nothing.
Now in this class I have put one async method.
Similarly.
Like above, I have told.
I have put at the rate async write and I have one controller which calls this method.
I have showed you above, right?
Let's say that that controller is still present there, which invoking this async method.
Okay, so now what would this what would happen here.
Now this is exactly the same as the above one.
How after thread.
Task eight.
Again.
Task one.
Task two.
The thread name coming.
So what would happen?
So during application startup when you start an application.
Spring boot sees that no thread pool task executor present.
So it creates its default thread pool task executor.
So what spring boot does is it checks.
Hey does developer or does application define any thread pool executor or thread pool task executor?
No, we have not provided anything.
So what spring boot does is spring boot creates its own or creates its default thread pool task executor
with below configuration.
Core pool size means minimum pool size eight.
Maximum pool size is your integer dot max value and the q capacity is again integer dot max value.
Okay, but this is how it created.
And that's where we see that when I run it it say 12345678.
So eight eight threads are available.
So they picked it right after that.
When I put again it again started from 123456.
Right.
No new thread created.
But here if you see it has certain disadvantages.
Also because the max pool size are very big, even the Q size are very big.
Okay, so it has certain disadvantage.
And also I will tell uh, before coming to the disadvantage of this, I will tell you that here spring
boot try to see thread pull task executor.
So see, there is something called thread pool executor which is Java, plain Java, and there is something
called thread pool task executor.
This is spring.
This is a spring wrapper.
This is spring wrapper around this.
Okay.
So spring boot sees what thread pool task executor.
This one.
Okay.
So here if you see the thread pool task executor is nothing but a spring boot object which is just a
wrapper around thread pool executor.
So here if this is the class thread pool task executor.
If you go inside this internally, what it is doing.
Creating a plain Java thread pool executor only.
So it's just a wrapper which again creates a Same thread pool executor.
Plain Java thread pool executor.
Okay, so when you provide this kind of code spring boot again check this thread pool task executor.
If no thread pool task executor present, it will create its own default one with this configuration.
And this configuration has certain disadvantage which is not recommended.
All to use.
First under utilization of thread.
Under utilization of thread means with fixed mean pool size and unbounded queue.
I told you the flow.
What happened?
The maximum pool size will only come into the picture when the pools this are busy and the queue is
totally filled.
But here in this if you see the queue size is too big.
It's a very rare that this cube will get filled up.
So means even though your application can afford that.
Okay, I can create new threads, but still new thread will not get created because the queue is not
yet filled.
So that's why I say that the first problem with this underutilization of thread.
Even though you can afford to create a new thread more than eight, but it won't create because the
queue is not filled itself because queue size is too big.
High latency.
Since the queue size is too big, they will keep on waiting.
So now let's say that your all the eight threads are busy.
Thread one to thread eight are busy now any task which are coming.
Task nine.
Task ten.
They will keep on waiting into the queue until queue is not filled up before it.
A new thread get spawned from the max pool size.
So here if you see, since the queue capacity is too huge, this task will keep on appending and they
will keep on waiting for this out of this eight thread only to get free and then they will pick it right.
We are not creating new threads from the max pool size because queue is not getting filled up, so they
will keep on waiting into the queue itself.
So high latency is another problem with this one.
Thread exhaustion.
Thread exhaustion is there that see it is very rare.
Rare in this thread exhaustion.
But it's possible.
How come?
See there is no control.
Core pool size eight.
Queue capacity is this and maximum pool size is this.
Everything is like not infinite, right?
What if like core pool size eight all thread one to thread eight are busy.
The queue become filled.
Completely filled Field 022147483646.
All the tasks got filled up, let's say.
And now it will start creating threads from the max till the max pool size is not reached.
And now let's say that because of some issue it is keep on creating a new threads and this limit is
also reached.
Now you are out of thread and your application will crash.
It's very unlikely here because the size are too big.
But thread exhaustion is possible because nobody is controlling that where should get stopped and they
keep on creating the threads till it is finished.
Another is high memory usage.
See, each thread needs some memory.
Now just assume that if you are creating so many threads.
Now let's say that all eight threads are created.
Queue is full.
Now you are trying to create a thread till this max pool size is reached.
You are creating so many threads and there is a chance that high memory usage.
Your system will perform.
Performance will get degrade.
So there are so many.
See, these are just for disadvantage if you go further.
Right.
There are so many.
Other disadvantage comes into the picture.
But these four are very sufficient to say that we should not go with the default thread pool executor
functionality.
So we should never use this.
So use case one.
We should never use this.
We just put at the rate, enable a sink and just put at the rate sink.
No.
So what should we do.
Let's see the use case two creating our own custom thread pool task executor.
Right?
I am saying task executor means spring one, not the plain Java.
This is a wrapper which internally will create a plain Java one.
So here, if you see in the spring boot application I am creating at the rate enable async, it will
tell Spring boot to initialize classes which is required.
And this is the method, the same method where I am putting at the async only first.
First ignore this.
I'll tell you first, focus only on this one.
It's exactly the same right at the async I am putting.
And this async method.
It's just printing this.
Now inside this configuration I am providing my own thread pool task executor on thread pool task executor.
So I am creating a new object of thread pool task executor providing a minimum pool size to maximum
pool size four and the queue size is three.
So here you know that in the plain Java I have already told you in plain Java how you can do it in plain
Java.
You can do it like this.
Write new thread pool executor minimum.
Maximum.
Like this.
Right?
But here in the spring, it's just a wrapper.
Right.
So it's a little bit, uh, read like readability is better.
So I am putting core pool size here.
You can set the max pool size.
You can set the queue capacity.
And even you can give the thread name prefix like I want this thread name prefix, my thread hyphen
and you can initialize it.
Now what would happen when I start an application during application startup?
What is spring boot?
Say that Spring boot will try to identify if you see this code.
First step.
Spring boot will try to identify see any default executor it can use.
And yes, now here in this case, during application startup, a spring boot sees that thread pool task
executor bean is already present.
We because we have created a bean right for this.
So this bean is already present.
So spring boot will not create its own thread pool executor.
It will use over itself.
So see, even though we haven't tell here which one to use, but still it will use this only.
Right?
So during application startup, Spring Boot sees that the thread pool task executor bean is present.
So this will make it default.
So either you use it, you will get the same or either if you provide the name which explicitly executor.
So here the bean I have provided a name.
So the same name you can give it here.
So either you specifically mention that.
Okay I want to use you use my executor then also it will use this only even if you don't use this.
And if you, even if you just put at the rate it will not use simple async task executor.
That is wrong.
It will use over only.
Why?
I already told you it.
First try to see.
Is there any default?
Is there any threadpool task executor being present?
If no spring boot creates its own.
If it is present, the spring boot use that only.
So now here, if you see that in both the scenario, whether you use it without name or with name,
the output would be same.
Now if you call multiple time.
So I'm calling multiple times.
So each time you will see that this is the main thread.
And when our async method invoke my thread one.
So here if you see I have given the prefix my third hyphen.
Second time my thread two.
So I have.
What is the minimum pool size?
I have given two right, and threads are got free.
As soon as there is nothing high processing I am doing.
So the third time I am running again this only pig.
Next time I'm running thread two pig.
Next time I'm running again thread one pig.
So here if you see these two threads are able to handle all the tasks and if we have to understand the
queue and all.
So let's say that I am putting sleep in the async method.
So in the async method I purposely added the sleep after putting inside async method, and I have put
a sleep just to make sure that okay, once the thread pick this, they busy and they are not get free
and then test it.
So now what happen is say first time I ran Minimum pool sizes two max is four and the queue size is
three, right 243.
Yeah.
So now here if you see task one come thread one got picked.
So only one left.
Second task come thread two got picked.
So no free threads available in the minimum pool.
It's now zero.
Now more task is coming.
So it is just putting into the queue.
So here if you see no thread get created.
So it just putting task three.
Task four.
Task five.
Now here if you see task six is coming what happen is another thread got invoked because maximum is
four.
So one more thread comes in.
A new thread comes into the picture.
Now that is also free and that is also busy.
Now another thread is coming.
Uh, another task is coming.
Seven.
All three.
This two and this three are busy.
Queue is full again.
I can create one more.
So thread four created and task seven is getting processed.
So this is also busy.
Now eight is coming.
Task eight.
All four threads are busy.
Queue is full.
Task is get rejected.
Okay.
Task eight got rejected.
So now here if you see that the thread pool is working like how we want it based upon our analysis,
what should be good for our system?
We have come up with this number and now it's working as expected.
We are not allowing that you can create more threads apart from this number.
So this is you can say recommended solution.
Okay.
And one one answer.
You have got that even though we are using at the rate ussing, it is not picking simple async task
executor because first it will check any thread pool task executor bean is present and yes, it is present.
Now let's understand the use case three.
Very interesting use case creating our own thread pool executor.
But the Java one.
In the previous one we have created a custom thread pool task executor spring one which spring looks
for.
But what if we create a Java one here?
Now here.
If you see the same thing I have put at the rate enable async.
And now here I am using at the rate async only.
But here I am using plain Java plain Java to create a thread pool executor, not thread pool task executor,
which is for spring.
I am using plain Java, but I am creating a bean for the executor.
Now what would happen?
What would happen if I run this?
Will it?
Will this executor be picked?
No.
What would happen is I told you during application startup Spring boot sees that.
Hey, thread pool executor, the Java one bean is present so it do not create its own default or try
to even look for thread pool task executor itself.
So spring wrapper one is like a second priority.
The first priority is that hey, if the Java thread pool executor we have itself defined, if you if
you use thread pool task executor internally, it will create a Java thread pool executor this command.
But if we itself have provided the thread pool executor right?
This executor is now instance of thread pool executor.
Okay, so since we have provided this spring boot will not even look for this thread pool task executor.
So now in this case, what would happen is this one the default executor come as null and once it is
come as null, it will pick simple async task executor.
Right.
So that's the you can say that the use case where it only pick simple async thread executor where we
have provided our own plain Java thread pool executor.
Right?
Then spring boot will not even create an instance of thread pool task executor.
Right.
And if you are using Ussing, then at this point of time spring will go for simple async task executor.
Now here, if you see if I run now here.
If you see the first time application main run it pick simple async task executor one second time 23456789.
See after eight it just keep on 1011.
Now it will not go after it again.
One it will just keep on going.
If you keep on hitting, it will keep on going.
Now here the name thread name itself say async simple async task executor because we have provided this
thread pool executor the plain Java one.
So what to do?
We have to provide this.
We have to here provide a proper name.
Okay.
Whenever you have used the plain Java thread pool executor, we have to tell specifically Spring Boot
that hey, use this executor async and give that executor name.
Then it will pick your thread one, thread two.
My thread one.
My thread two.
So whatever I am giving.
Okay, so always remember whenever you are using plain Java executor, your.
Also you have to specifically provide the name to the async.
But if you are using spring thread pool thread.
Thread pool task executor without even providing it will work without even providing it will work like
this because the code will look for any thread pool task executor present.
Okay.
And also, you know that this simple async task executor is not recommended because of the same reason
thread exhaustion.
Since blindly creating a new thread with every async request might lead up to thread exhaustion.
Thread creation overhead.
Since threads are not reused, thread management, like creation destroying is an additional overhead.
High memory usage.
Every thread required some memory.
Let's say uh, if there are more threads currently running in parallel, they require more memory.
So your application performance degrades.
So we should not use like if you are using your plain Java thread pool executor, then you should not
use add the async.
Simply, you have to use specifically the name so that this gets picked up.
Okay.
I hope this, uh, I know that the answer of this solution, what is the default executor is picked
up by spring is not that straightforward.
So with this three use cases, I told you what is the default behavior and what should be the recommended
solutions to use.
But let's say that.
If you see that by this point of time you say that, hey, I don't want all this confusion, man.
Use case one, use case two, use case three.
In the use case one, I can use directly at the rate of saying.
In use case two, I can also use at the rate a sink, and also at the rate a sink with name like some
name given.
And in the use case three I all mandatory have to use a sink with name.
I don't want my developers to get confused right?
What uh what to follow.
So there is very another simple way.
And this is, I would say that mostly industry standard.
So what it says that I always want to set my executor as default one.
Right.
No matter whether if you use a sink or at the rate a sink name doesn't matter.
Only my executor will get picked up.
Okay, so there is another way.
So another way is that during the configuration class App.config implement a sink configure implement
this class.
Okay.
And once you implement this class you have to override this method.
Get a sink executor.
Now since you have override this mat get a sink Executor.
This is now your thread pool executor.
You can put whether thread pool task executor or you can use thread pool or plain Java thread pool executor.
You can use anything, right?
Return type should be executor either you can use plain Java thread pool executor or thread pool task
executor.
Whatever the now you wanted, you can use it now.
What happened with this is that even if you are using an async right always this will get picked up
so you never have to worry about.
Hey, I am using plain Java here.
Now since I am using plain Java, I have to specifically mention the name.
What is the my thread pool executor name?
Now that worry goes.
Now you don't have to worry about whether plain Java or thread pool task executor spring one.
Now since you have done an override this one.
Now your method gets invoked to decide which executor to use.
Since we have overrided this now, the control will come here and this executor will use and that would
be our default one.
It will always find an executor.
Okay.
And also remember one thing here.
If you are using this approach very very important since this is not a bean.
And here we are creating a new object every time since this this is just an override method.
This is not a bean.
You know that bean by default is singleton.
And here we have to take care of that.
So I have created a private thread pool executor object.
If thread pool executor is null, then only I am creating an object.
If object is already present, then return it.
And I have created this method as synchronized so that if two threads are coming.
Two requests are coming parallelly.
They will get only one object for my thread pool executor.
So only this handling required.
If you are using this.
Okay so this is another industry standard.
So in if you are working in your company you might see this also in like developers are using this right.
So this is also an acceptable way of working.
Implement async configure but take care of the singleton here.
You have to take it manually.
And.
But in the above one add since you are using at the rate been been are by default singleton.
So that is automatically taken care.
So that is one way where you can avoid like I don't have to give name.
What is the use case one.
Use case two use case three.
You will always use at the rate passing and it will always pick your.
executor.
Okay, so this is just an output I showed.
I am using here Java Java thread pool executor.
And even though I am using at the rate async, mine got picked up.
Not simple async task executor.
Okay, do practice it with your hand.
And in the part two I will cover that.
There are some more topics I want to cover in this exception.
Handling async method return type transaction management with async method.
And there are some interview questions so that I will cover in the part two part.
But I hope this is totally clear.
Like answer is not always straightforward like spring boot uses default simple async task executor.
No, there is more to it.
Okay guys, any question?
Please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
We can discuss more.
Thank you.
Bye.