# Java Annotations - Part1 | Deprecated, Override, FunctionalInterface etc.

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in Java we are going to cover annotations.
Right.
It's a very very important topic.
You will gonna use it a lot right a lot.
And I don't want to break it into multiple parts because this is very interesting.
So don't want to break the flow.
So please bear with me.
It might be a little bit long video, not much.
I'll as I have done a lot of pre work of writing it.
So we will go slow but cover all today.
Okay so let's start what is annotation.
Right.
So it is a kind of adding metadata to the Java code right.
So if you have not seen the reflection video till yet please check the previous video of this Java series
reflection because we are going to use a reflection here also.
So until unless you are not clear with the reflection, I won't suggest that you will start annotations.
Okay, so in reflection you know that a class have so many metadata information and reflection is used
to access those metadata.
So annotation is nothing but a kind of metadata.
And you can use reflection to access that metadata.
So means you can access annotation using reflection.
Okay.
We will see that with an example.
But understand this.
It is just kind of adding metadata to the Java code.
So it's usage is optional.
Its usage is totally optional.
It won't break anything if you don't use it.
Don't write it write it.
Just metadata.
Write data of data right.
So you can use this metadata information at runtime and can add certain logic in our code if wanted.
Right.
So you know that you can add certain metadata.
You can add certain data which you wanted to add.
And during runtime using reflection, you can access those metadata and perform certain operation.
So that's why I said that you can use this metadata at runtime while your code is running.
And that time you can add certain logic if you wanted.
We'll see with an example also.
How to read this metadata information.
Or I would say that how to read this annotation which you have added.
The answer is reflection because I told you reflection is used to access the metadata of the class,
right?
And annotation is nothing but a kind of metadata.
Annotation can be applied anywhere like classes, method, interface fields, parameters, etc. so we
will see all the different places where we can apply.
But this annotation we can apply at anywhere.
Okay.
Let's see one example first which is very very common.
And we have till now seen it might be so many times.
So this is a simple interface class bird.
Right.
And you are creating one class which implements this bird.
And you are overriding this method.
So you know that at the rate override method we apply.
But this is optional.
Even if you don't write it, nothing will happen, right?
Even if you don't write it, nothing will happen.
It will be treated as a method only, but at the rate override, which is nothing but your annotation,
right?
So annotation is denoted using at the rate okay.
So this annotation provide a particular metadata information.
So during may be compiler at runtime it will check okay.
This method has this annotation metadata.
So this is now I'm kind of adding a metadata.
I'm providing certain information to the compiler at runtime.
Hey, this method has this annotation.
You need to make sure now it will perform certain logic.
Hey, you need to make sure that this method should be exactly same as method in the interface or parent
class, right?
So now what you have seen is here.
Like now we have added a metadata and compiler is using it to add certain logic.
Okay.
So here you have seen this.
This is known as annotation okay.
Starting with at the rate.
So you got it right.
What is annotation.
So anywhere you will see this at the rate something.
Just remember that it is an annotation.
It is optional right.
It's it's because it's a metadata.
Metadata is optional.
Right.
And you can use this information runtime to add certain logic.
Okay.
And how to access this metadata through reflection.
But we will see all this example and it will get clearer and clearer.
So now let's see first type of annotations which we have.
One is predefined annotation which is already present into the Java or Java has already given us so
many thing.
And custom annotation.
User defined annotation.
We can define our own right at the rate.
I can also create right at the rate.
Hello.
Right.
I can create with any name.
Right?
So that is with custom name.
And one is predefined with Java has already given us.
So in the predefined.
Also there are two categories generally.
So one is which is used on the Java code like classes methods field interfaces parameters.
Right.
Whatever the Java code you write.
So in that itself you can use certain annotation like at the rate deprecated.
At the rate override, add the suppress warning at the rate function interface at the rate safe variable
arguments.
So these are used on Java code, but there are certain annotation which is used on top of annotations
right.
So this is also known as meta annotation.
Annotation.
So you are putting an annotation over an annotation.
I'll tell you how, but just remember this for now what categories we have.
One is predefined means what Java has already defined.
One is custom which meant which we can create our own predefined also has two.
One is which is used on the Java code which we gonna write it classes, methods etc. and one is meta
annotations which is used over the annotation itself.
Right.
Let's say I have created this annotation.
So this meta annotations can be used on top of it.
Right.
I'll see you.
I'll share you an example and it will get much better.
Clearer.
But just for now, just understand this meta annotation is it is used on annotations and this one is
which is used on Java course classes methods.
But let's go slowly and see one by one each annotation used on Java code.
So I'm first covering this basic.
So we'll first cover this second we will cover this.
And third we will cover this okay.
So annotations used on Java code.
So what I told you that this is a predefined annotations.
So this five annotations already Java has provided us right.
And it is used over classes methods on Java codes which you have.
Right.
So what is the first one.
Deprecated the usage of deprecated class or method or field.
So it's a so let's say you have a particular class A.
Now you want to make sure that whoever using it they should use something.
Let's say class new A this is something new implementation.
And where you are updating all the latest features in this class.
This class is deprecated.
You are not taking any more, uh, requests here.
Hey, I'm using this class.
I am seeing some issue.
Can you fix it in this class?
No, we are having a new class.
So what you can do is you can mark it as deprecated.
Right.
So this will whoever is using this class, they will get a warning.
They will get a warning that this is deprecated.
And you can add a method that the instead of this class A use new a integrate with this rather than
this.
Deprecated.
It so deprecated can be used over a class, method or fields.
Right?
And if anybody is using this deprecated class or deprecated method or deprecated field, they will be
shown with a warning that you are using.
Deprecated.
If any issue comes or if you wanted to expand it, nobody gonna entertain it.
Either use the latest one if provided.
So deprecation generally means no further improvement is happening on this code and use new alternative
method or field instead if available.
So deprecated method can be used over constructor field local variable method package parameter type.
So type is generally in your class interface enum.
So now let's say very basic.
This is my class public class mobile right.
And this is one dummy method which I have created.
I don't want this dummy method to be used by anybody because now I am not, uh, continuous development
happening on this, right?
There is a alternative available so I can mark with this annotation at the rate deprecated.
Now if anybody using this method.
So in this main method I created an object of a mobile.
Now I am trying to access this deprecated method.
Now see here the compiler shows me a warning that hey you are using a deprecated method, right?
It might be possible that if in future you face any issue or you are looking for something, there is
no like it's already deprecated.
Deprecated.
It's no further development is happening on this, right?
So if you expand this warning you will see that deprecation API usage.
So it found that you are using certain deprecated method.
So what happened is this is just a metadata information we added over this method.
And it might be helping the compiler to know that okay if anybody using this method compiler.
So maybe compiler is using reflection and see that okay this method has deprecated annotation.
If yes, show this warning.
Okay.
So this is one of the annotation which is available in predefined in Java.
And you can use like this.
Second is at the rate override.
I don't have to explain this override because we have already used that so many places during inheritance.
Right.
But still let's uh, quickly cover it so that there is no gap.
Right?
So during compile time, it will check that the method should be overridden.
If you have used the at the override method override annotation over a particular method, then what
it will do is it will give a information to the compiler that okay, on this method override is used.
Annotation.
So you have to do is check its parent and see that the same method.
Definition should be there.
So it will check that hey public boolean fly.
This is fly one.
Where is fly one here.
No.
So it is throwing a here.
If you see that it is throwing a compile time error.
Okay.
It can be used over methods.
So where override can be used over methods.
Right.
So you can't use it over class.
No.
It is used over methods.
Similarly we have another called suppress warnings.
Suppress warning.
It will tell compiler to ignore any compile time warnings.
So now here, if you see that I have used deprecated annotation.
Right.
And if anybody is using this deprecated method, they are showing with a warning.
Now sometimes if you feel very, uh, like uh, hey, why I am getting showed this warnings.
Lot of warnings.
I know that I don't want to see this.
So you can suppress this warnings, right?
So here, if you see that, how you can suppress it using this annotation okay.
So this is the same example which I have used.
I have created a mobile class.
And I have this deprecated method inside this annotated with at the rate deprecated.
Now in the main class I am using this deprecated method.
So compiler show me with a warning, but I don't want this warning.
It's very annoying.
So what I did is either I put at the rate suppress warning.
Either I put at the rate suppress warning at the method level.
So I have put deprecation.
So now here if you see that warning gone right.
Now no matter how many deprecated fields classes you're gonna use, you won't see the warning.
Similarly, you can use over the class also.
So now it was specific for this method.
If you used over class it will be for all the methods.
In all the methods you can use deprecated fields, class methods.
You won't see any warning right?
And if you want to suppress all the warnings like deprecation is just one another is let's say unused.
So let's say you have created a method but not used at all.
So it will show that compiler will show a warning that it is not used right.
So you can add one at the rate suppress warning unused.
Right.
So here if you see that if you want to ignore all the warnings, you can use all.
Right.
Suppress warning all.
So generally what happen is uh, like you might be asking like, hey, suppress warning.
How do I know whether I have to use deprecation or deprecation or unused or all or this one?
So like, what is the this thing?
So generally this is a string.
And generally whenever the warning comes up.
Right.
And if you click on top of it it will say that add suppress warning.
As soon as you click that add suppress warning it will add it right.
But Java has provided a list of.
You can check the Oracle docs and that it will provided so many suppressed warnings.
So it's a string.
It was provided so many.
Uh, what are the warnings?
It's possible.
And their respective name, which you can use into the suppressed warnings.
Right.
So you can check that one.
But generally, whenever warning comes, if you want to suppress it, if you click here and it will
you can say that add this annotation.
It will simply add this also.
Okay.
But it's good to know that where you should suppress warnings.
But remember sometimes warnings are good.
It can save you from an exception during runtime, right?
Maybe.
Let's say I'm just saying, for example, let's say you are doing divide by zero five divided by zero.
You know that this is an exception.
This is an exception.
So not a compile time, but maybe a runtime runtime exception comes arithmetic exception.
So whenever you do divide by zero, maybe certain compiler showing you that warning hey you might.
This is a warning you are doing.
Divide by zero.
And if you do suppress all, if you do suppress all, you will not get this warning at all.
And it is possible that during runtime you will get the exception runtime exception, then it's possible.
So try to use this where you are confident that yes, you are ignoring this warning.
Why?
Okay, so where this you can put you can use you can put this suppress warning at the field.
Right field means this one let's say here you have a field string my value.
So this declaration is nothing but a field right member variable methods parameters constructor local
variable and type.
So all this places you can put a suppress warnings.
Okay.
Then we have add the right functional interface.
So at the functional interface we have already covered.
And you might have seen that whenever we want to create any interface as a functional interface we create
we add this annotation.
Right.
Whenever we add this annotation we it we are kind of providing an information to the compiler that this
is a functional interface.
It should have only one abstract method.
Right.
So now here, if you see that when I try to add two abstract method, compiler shows an error, right.
So now you got it right.
It is something kind of we are providing additional information, additional information to the compiler
or JVM or this thing where they are adding certain logic.
Now as soon as I added this annotation.
Now without this annotation this will work fine, but as soon as I added this annotation at the right
function interface and interface compiler, start adding certain logic where it's checked that only
okay, there should be only one abstract method it says to its source compilation error.
Okay, so at the functional interface is whenever you want to restrict interface to have only one abstract
method where it can be used, it can be used over classes or interfaces or enum.
So generally it's used over interfaces.
But we have this type.
I'll tell you about this how we are determining that which annotation can be used.
At what place.
Right.
I'll tell you how.
But remember that at the functional interface interface, what is the visibility for this where we can
apply it at the type right.
So generally type is class interface or enum.
So over interface it has been used.
Okay.
Till now we are clear, right?
At the rate deprecate.
At the rate.
Override at the rate.
Suppress.
Warning at the rate function interface.
Very simple.
Right.
The usage of the annotation.
Now let's understand the safe variable arguments.
So here in the so where this use.
So first of all you have to understand this variable arguments.
So I have already explained what is variable arguments.
If you remember that three dots one right.
That is variable arguments in the variable topic I have already covered the variable arguments.
If you haven't seen, please have a look.
What is variable arguments?
Okay, so this is also nothing but a very very similar to suppress warning.
Very very similar to suppress warning but suppress warning where it is suppress warning at the method
which is having method or constructor, which is having which is accepting variable arguments as a type
parameter type.
Okay, so why it is used?
It is used to suppress heap pollution.
Warning.
Very important right?
I'll tell you what is heap pollution warning or what is heap pollution.
So safe variable arguments annotation.
It is used to suppress heap pollution.
Warning right.
It is used over methods and constructors which has variable arguments as parameter.
So let's say if you have this method print method.
Similarly string a can you use here.
No it doesn't have variable arguments.
So this annotation says that safe variable argument.
So it is used only over the method which have variable arguments.
So either methods and where it can be used.
Method should be either static or final.
Right.
So here if you see that method can be either static or final, then only this annotation can be applied.
Why?
Because if you don't, because you know that static or final method cannot be overridden.
So it's generally you can say that it's it's avoiding.
Try to avoid that.
You can't do a overridden of a method.
Right.
So it is possible that in parent class on method one you have put save where hours annotation and in
child class.
Right.
You have overridden this method.
Now method one and you miss this annotation right?
Then it's possible that whatever the save check you are doing here, you might miss there.
So that's why it says that hey, save this annotation safe variable arguments can only be used over
final or static method.
So.
But in Java nine you can also use it in private method.
So in before Java eight and before.
If you try to put this annotation on private methods, you won't be able.
You will get certain error exception or compilation error.
But in Java nine you can also use on private method because you know that private method also cannot
be overridden.
Right?
So but private method can also have this annotation in Java nine.
Now let's see first understand what is heap pollution.
We are we are saying multiple times that okay.
It is used to suppress heap pollution.
And it is used only for methods which has variable argument as parameter.
What is the link?
What is the link between heap pollution On and variable arguments.
What is the link?
Okay.
So let's first understand what is heap pollution.
Heap pollution is so you know that in we have two type of memory like stack and heap.
So what does heap stores heap stores objects.
Okay.
Now what is heap pollution means you have an object of type A right.
So I have this a object but it stores the reference of object of type B.
Then you can say that your heap is polluted.
Your object is this is your object.
It is of type A, so it should keep a reference of what object type A only right.
But when he get polluted, it is possible that object of type A may be let's say string.
This is your object.
It is storing a reference in heap of let's say integer.
Right.
So this is what known as actually heap pollution.
Object of one type.
Storing the reference of another type object that is known as heap pollution.
And how with variable argument heap pollution is possible.
Let's see.
So I have created one class.
Simple.
I have created one method.
So now here if you see that I have used a variable argument.
Right.
So you know that just for a quick background of this one so that you will get remember let's say if
you have this method and if you have used let's say int three dots a right?
You can even pass like this method.
Zero parameters method with one parameter.
Method with two comma three three parameters.
Right.
So you don't have to create multiple methods like with empty parameters with one parameter one int.
Then with two parameters right.
So internally Java takes care of it and it converts it to array itself.
Okay.
So this variable arguments is you can provide either zero parameter one parameter two parameter three
parameter four parameter any right.
And internally Java will change this variable arguments to an array.
Okay.
So now see how can I do the heap pollution using this.
So now I have created this method.
Now I have created a list of integer, right?
So you can say that array or array of kind of list of integer.
So I can pass so many.
List of integer.
List of integer multiple list of integers.
Right.
So what does it means.
Let's say I have a list A list b list c.
So now in print log values, print log values, even I can pass nothing or even I can pass.
So let's say only a or only a comma b or a comma b comma c.
You can pass this many parameters of what type.
List.
List of integer okay.
So now let's say how I am abusing it here.
So now I have this argument which is of variable argument.
Now I stored it into object array.
You know that object is kind of a parent of all the classes.
So I can simply do this right.
So here my log number list, let's say it is pointing a reference in a heap.
Right.
Let's say it is.
It's a list of integer right.
So let's say I am.
It's having a list of integer somewhere.
So this will also have a list of integers.
So kind of this because this itself integer Java will make it as an array.
I told you that variable arguments internally converted as an array.
So array and an array of what list of integer.
So you might be having a list of integers.
Okay.
So now what I'm doing is first I have a reference into the object.
This one.
So now I am having an object list.
Also, it is pointing again to the same starting of this.
Right now what I am doing is I am creating a list of string.
Now I am creating a list of string adding certain string values.
Now I have added into the object of zero means.
In the first part I have added this string list.
So this is 01234.
So object of zero means this only, which is also has a reference to this one, which is of let's say
having one, 23456 integers string integer values.
So object of zero.
What I have put.
A string value less so now I have replaced it with.
Another which is currently having.
Let's say hello.
Now here, if you see that log number list, it is of what type.
List of integer.
It is of list of integer.
But it is so it is pointing.
So it's a reference.
And generally it should keep all only list of integers only.
But here if you say that it is pointing to a list of string.
So now you know that your heap pollution has done.
Why?
Because of this object.
Because an object you can store a string, you can store integer, you can do anything.
So using of this object and this variable arguments I can do the heap pollution.
Okay.
So generally whenever you are using a variable arguments it will show you a warning right.
If you drill down this warning what it will say is that possible heap pollution from this variable arguments
type.
Maybe it's a false true.
Maybe it's a false warning.
But it just show you that hey, you are accepting a variable argument.
It is possible that heap pollution can happen.
It just give you a warning.
So it just like a warning that double check your code that he pollution should not be happening.
And I told you how he pollution happens here is.
I like in the list of integer I am storing list of string okay so but now let's say so.
This is just an example.
But let's say you are sure that yes heap pollution is not happening and you want to suppress this heap
pollution.
Wondering how you can do is put at the rate save variable arcs annotation so it can be used over the
method or constructor which accepts this variable arguments only right?
And it will avoid or suppress your heap argument.
Heap pollution warning.
Okay, so you got it right.
What is heap pollution and what is the use of safe variable arguments annotation.
Okay.
So these are very simple.
You can say that uh Java already provided where you can use on the code.
Right.
Very simple very straightforward.
What does it mean.
But now let's say talk about little bit meta annotation which is used over another annotations.
Okay.
Annotation used over another annotations which is known as meta annotations.
