Finally the last video of the collections that is stream, right?
So this is very, very important topic.
I will cover the whole stream into one video.
And it is important from the interview perspective as well as it is very, very important from the day
to day usage perspective also.
So let's jump into that.
What is stream?
We can consider the stream as a pipeline through which our data element passes through.
So consider this as a pipeline.
Right.
So let's say this is our pipeline right.
And we have data coming to this pipeline.
And it will pass through this.
While element passes through this pipeline it can perform various operations like sorting, filtering
etc..
So what we will have is we can put operations here, let's say sorting operation, filtering operation.
So what we can have is in this pipeline we can add multiple operations.
Right.
So as data passes through this pipeline, it will pass through all the filters and ultimately we will
get the result or output right.
So this is very you can say that just to imagine as what is a stream.
So useful when deal with bulk processing.
Right.
Because it has the capability to parallel processing.
So I would say that the real power of streams comes for the bulk processing.
If you have a collection with data, let's say 1015, either you do it processes through uh, if else
for loop or using stream, you won't see much impact.
But the real benefit of streams comes when we deal with bulk data.
So here if you see this, if you see this diagram stream has three parts or three steps.
So here we have a collection.
So just say that collection of data or data.
So in this collection uh It could be your list.
It could be your array.
Right?
So just imagine a collection of data.
Okay.
So what is the step one.
So in the step one out of this collection of data we have to first create a stream.
So this is the step one.
We have to first create the stream.
Because you have you might have data in an array.
You might have data in a list.
So first is we need to open a stream or create a stream.
Second is intermediate operation at the operations at this operations.
Right.
So these are known as intermediate operation.
Why.
What does it intermediate operation means intermediate operation like filter sorts maps are used.
So what makes intermediate operations are the name intermediate, right?
So these operations transform the stream from one into another stream.
Okay.
So what does it mean is that this is stream.
You have opened the stream.
Okay.
You have opened the stream.
Now.
Data is coming.
So what it will do is when it pass through the intermediate operation, the output is again a stream
only.
So that's what it says, that these operations transform the stream into another stream.
So maybe at this point of time this data is in like for example, unsorted.
Then what is the first step?
First step I create the stream.
So stream is created right?
Stream is created.
This is unsorted data.
So first step open the stream or create the stream.
So I have created the stream.
Okay.
The second step put the intermediate operation.
We can have an intermediate operation like sorted.
This is sorted is one intermediate operation.
So this sorted intermediate operation accept the stream and its output is also a stream.
But it transforms.
So here it accepts an unsorted data output is sorted stream of data okay.
So that's why it's a name intermediate.
It's just not a final phase.
It's just an intermediate.
And we can have many intermediate phases or operation I can have here like say filter.
Filter is one more intermediate.
So maybe I can filter some data, let's say out of this unsorted integer filter the data which is greater
than three.
Right.
So it accept this stream of data.
It output would be also a stream of data, but it transforms it.
So this has sorted but values also lesser than three.
But after this filter operation it will have all this stream of data which is only greater than three
only.
So you got it.
What does intermediate operation means?
They are lazy in nature.
I will tell you what does lazy means, but just for now, see that these are lazy in nature means these
operations get executed only when terminal operation is invoked.
I will tell you with this with an example, but keep this in your back that yes, they are lazy in nature
means they get executed only when terminal operation is invoked, right?
We'll see in, uh, sometime.
Okay, so step one is clear that it is.
Help us to create a stream.
Second step is we can add one or more intermediate operations.
The third step is terminal operation.
Terminal operation.
You can use only one.
So let's say you can use terminal operation.
Terminal operation means as soon as the terminal operation is invoked.
Right.
Means you will get the result.
After it is invoked.
You will get the result.
You cannot add any more operations after this because terminal operation.
You will get the result and it will close the stream.
Also, it will close the stream, right?
So assume this that this is your data.
First step you open the stream.
You added certain operations, intermediate operations many.
But you added also one terminal operation at last.
So after this terminal operation, we cannot add any more operation, whether intermediate or terminal,
whatever, because after this terminal operation, it will output whatever the result would be and it
will close this stream.
Close the stream.
Right.
And now, if you see that this original data is not changed, it is not changed at all.
It's never get touched on touch in the sense this do not get modified.
So it always each and operation whenever they get stream is opened, they will get the data.
They will output as a new stream, new stream, right.
And whatever the result you will get, it will just you can get that as a new maybe list maybe array.
But it's a totally new data, new collection.
The original collection is not changed at all.
Okay, so step three terminal operations are like collect, reduce, count, etc. we will see that these
operation triggers the processing of the string right.
So that's what we call the intermediate operation as lazy because they only get invoked when terminal
operation is triggered.
We will see that with an example.
It also produced the output means after terminal operation use no more operation we can perform.
Okay so for this stream three steps are there.
Let's see with an example.
So I am creating first an example without using a stream.
So let's say I have created a data first list of an integer which is nothing but a salary.
So 3000 4000 109,000 1000 3500.
Some salary right?
Integer.
Now what I am doing is what I wanted to do.
I have to iterate over this salary and I need to find out a count how many salaries which are greater
than 3000.
I need a count of that.
So it's a very simple for loop I have iterating it.
If salary greater than 3000 count plus plus.
So it should be one, two and three.
So output should be your three.
But now if I want to write this using a stream how I will write it.
So the same.
So you have a data whatever the same data we have now instead of this I am replacing it with a stream.
So see how I'm writing a stream first?
What is the step one?
From this data you have to create a or open a stream.
So here from the list dot stream.
So this collection has exposed a method stream.
So this will create an stream.
Right.
So first step is it will create a stream.
So we can see also here that like.
Uh so whatever the list would be right inside a list let's say.
We have uh so it might be into this upper class collection.
So do we have stream?
Let's.
Yeah.
So this method get invoked and see what it will do is it will return the stream of whatever the data
we have.
Integer.
So first step is open a stream or create a stream.
So from this data source I have now created the stream.
Now second is you can put one or more intermediate operations.
So let's say I want to do a filter.
So here I am doing a filtering right.
If salary greater than 3000 count plus plus right.
So salary greater than 3000.
So this is filtering.
So I am doing a filter dot filter.
Don't worry about this.
What all methods are present and how to use that for now concentrate.
That second step is the intermediate operation.
So this is one of the intermediate operation.
So filter and you already know that lambda expression it extensively use the lambda expression.
So filter.
So it will take put this lambda expression that salary greater than 3000.
Right.
So what it will do is it will filter from this stream whatever the data it is going through this second
intermediate operation, it will filter out and keep only those which are salary greater than 3000.
Right.
And this is the third step is the terminal operation.
So I did dot count.
So count is one of the terminal operation.
Again don't worry about what all operations are there how to use it.
Just see that this stream has three steps.
Open a stream.
We can add one or more intermediate.
And that is also not one or more.
I would say that zero or more.
So it is not mandatory to use intermediate operation.
So zero or more intermediate operation.
And after that you can put at least 1 or 1 terminal operation.
So count I put it.
So after this filter whatever the stream has because this filter have also this filter also have output
the stream.
Now this stream has whatever the data.
Right.
So now here I am.
The next is count.
So it will count it.
So what?
What will have 123.
So it's count would be three.
So here it should print three.
So in both the cases output would be total employee with salary greater than 3000 is three.
Okay.
So don't worry about this filter count and all.
Just what I wanted to tell you about this.
Step three step.
So three step should be at least clear to you.
That first step is create a stream from the data source.
Second step is zero or more intermediate operation.
Third step is you have to have one terminal operation right.
And that will actually return the output.
Okay.
Now let's comes into the picture.
What are the different ways to create a stream.
From collection.
So now let's say I have created a list of salary, right?
So I have created a list ArrayList.
Simple, right?
So from this list, if you wanted to create or open a stream, we can create that dot stream method.
I have told you that the collection has this expose this stream method.
We can call that and it will give us a stream of integer, right?
Second is from array.
So let's say if your data source is an integer array.
So this is an integer array.
And then you have the data.
Now if you wanted to create a stream how you can create it like this.
Arrays dot stream and give the array.
So this will give you a stream of integer again.
So arrays dot stream.
You can use it for integer array or array.
Actually string array, whatever.
It could be array from array then from with the help of static method.
So here if you see that uh we can use uh stream dot off and then you can put all the values here.
Right.
So stream is a class here.
Inside this stream there is a method called off.
You can put a value there at like whatever.
So here we will see that it should have off method.
Here.
So.
Right.
So it will take a off method and through which you can put all the values which you wanted.
You can put it in here right.
And it will create a stream out of it.
So third one is from static method.
So this is a static method of right.
So this is the one actually we have used the variable arguments one we can provide a list kind of this
thing.
This is a variable argument right?
Three dots three dots one.
Okay.
From stream builder.
So there is like a method called uh there is one design pattern.
Also if you remember from the right, uh, builder pattern.
So here from the stream you can create dot builder method.
So it will give us a stream builder stream dot builder object.
Now what we can do is we can add stream builder dot add whatever the values you wanted to add.
Right after that we will do stream builder dot build.
It will give us a stream.
So this is another way of creating a stream.
Another way is from the stream.
Iterate.
So there is a stream dot.
Iterate right?
There is one more method expose iterate.
So this first one is the starting point.
So let's say I wanted to start from 1000.
After that is how you want it to increment.
So I wanted to increment like uh n plus 5000.
So like 1000 uh like five, 5000.
So it would be 6000, then 11,000, then 16,000.
Right.
So generally this is the start point.
And this is like another is like how you gonna perform or how you want to increment that value.
Right.
So I want to increment like plus 5000.
Right now this is generally we call this as an uh kind of an infinite iterate.
It will keep on running running running.
So we have to somewhere stop.
Right.
So that's where we have to always use it with dot limit.
Right.
So here what we will do is.
Dot.
Iterate.
Starting is thousand.
Increment it by 5000.
And how much we wanted dot limit limited till five.
So 123.
Then it will do this.
Then this 512345.
So this it will create a stream of this the stream of integer like this.
It will create using the iterate.
So iterate is generally it will keep on iterating.
Keep on iterating.
So where we have to stop it has to be stop or defined by this dot limit.
So iterate has to be used with the limit okay.
So these are the different ways through which we can do.
Step one create a stream okay.
Now second step what are the different intermediate operations exist.
So we can chain multiple intermediate operations together to perform more complex processing.
Before applying terminal operation to produce the result.
That's what I told you.
Zero or more intermediate operations can be put together.
Okay, now let's see that intermediate operations which are present.
Right.
Very important.
So first is filter right.
So here I am creating I'm creating uh, this stream dot off using a static method.
So let's say I've created a stream of.
Hello everybody.
How are you doing?
Right.
So it's a stream of string.
Okay.
So what is this?
So I got a stream, right?
Now the second step, which is we are doing is intermediate operation.
So out of this stream for intermediate input is stream.
Output is also stream right.
And this is like intermediate operation.
So intermediate operation here is filter.
So input is stream stream dot filter.
This is an intermediate operation.
So now let's see once the filter part here.
Filter method where it goes.
Yeah.
So this method is taking this predicate right.
This is the functional interface.
And what does it take.
So this is the abstract method right.
And it accepts one parameter and return whether true or false.
Right.
So this is the predicate which it takes.
So here it accepts one input parameter.
And what it has to do I am putting a condition here.
Name whatever the name.
So it will first this, this this.
Right.
So inside this filter, what it will do is it will iterate.
It will iterate over your collections or streams.
It will iterate over your stream.
And what it will do is it will call that predicate.
It will call that predicate.
And this predicate has one abstract method which accepts one value, which accept one value.
Right.
So this filter method, this filter method will iterate over this values and pass it to the predicate.
So first it will pass.
Hello.
So the name would be hello.
And what it has to do is this name dot length less than equals to three.
Right.
If it is less than equal to three then it would return true as the predicate.
We see that it should return true.
And this filter method, what it does is if it become true, then it will add it into the next stream.
Right.
So here less than equals to three.
True.
So what it will do is it will add it into the stream.
So next everybody is it greater than equals to true.
Uh great.
Uh less than equals to three.
No.
So it will not get added into the stream.
Hello.
Will also not get added.
How?
Less than or equal to three.
Yes.
So this is currently added into the stream.
Are also added into the stream.
You also added into the stream doing.
No.
Okay.
So the output of this is also an stream.
This is also an stream.
Okay.
After this what.
To get an output we need a terminal operator.
Right.
So terminal operator is there are so many.
So this is just one.
So I am collecting this data in a list.
So this dot collect.
So whatever the stream is there I am doing dot collect right to a list and it will give me the data
into the list.
So now if you print that data what it would be.
How are you?
This three things will get there in the list.
Okay so.
This is the function like filter which can be used to filter the element.
Second is map right.
It is used to transform each element.
So here if you see that first map.
Okay.
So this map is using which functional interface function.
And this has.
So this is a functional interface.
So functional interface has one abstract method.
So this abstract method accepts one value and also return also.
Right?
So.
First I am creating a stream.
I am opening a.
So this is my step one.
I'm creating a stream.
Hello everybody.
How are you doing?
Same example.
Now I am doing dot map.
I am putting an intermediate operation dot map and in the dot map internally, what it will do is it
will iterate over each element.
It will iterate over each element and it will call the predicate.
So here in this if you see this, what it will do is it will iterate.
It will iterate and call this predicate right.
And it simply put it into the downstream.
Downstream is like whatever the stream it is creating, it is added a new stream and it is keep adding
the data into the stream which will go down.
So it will iterate over each element and it will pass it to the predicate or not predicate.
It will pass it to this function, function or interface to this one.
And we will define what we have to do.
So it accepts one parameter because it will pass this value right.
So string name what I have to do I have to make it like I make it a smaller case.
So it will return this right name dot two lower case.
It will return that one.
So it was added into collected into a stream.
And again after that if you do collect and print it what it would be like.
Hello everybody.
How are you doing.
But if you see everything is in smaller letter.
So when it input is everything was capital and after this stream or map function everything is smaller.
So it is used to transform each element.
Okay.
The third one is flatMap, right?
So this flatMap is like uh, I think we already know that flatMap, right?
What does it does?
So if you have a complex collection like I have list of list.
So let's say you have a complex collection like this list of list.
And this is also have a list.
This also have kind of this.
So you have like 1234 list of list.
Right 56789 ten 1112.
So what it will do is flat flatMap.
It will just make it flat like it.
So if you put this into, uh, stream and inside a flatMap Map.
Intermediate operation.
What?
So output would be a stream of.
Let's say this is our integer.
So stream of integer it just make it flat 12345678.
Now it will not be a list of list.
It's just a values string, like a stream.
Then we can collect in an array or list or like that.
So for this I have created a list of list of string.
Right.
So here I have list like I love Java.
Then concepts are clear.
Then we have it's very easy like this.
Then what is the first step is the first step is get the stream from your data source or collection.
So from this source list I have opened a stream, created a stream.
Now second is putting an intermediate operation.
So this is my second step.
I am putting a intermediate operation that is flatMap right here.
I'm putting a flat map.
And here let's see that what flatMap accept.
So flatMap is accepting.
So it would be inside this flatMap.
So flatMap is also accepting the function only.
So it has it will accept one uh parameter and it will return the output.
Right.
So here in the flatMap.
So it will iterate over each element of this list.
And it will pass each element to this functional interface abstract method.
So each element is nothing but a list of string.
So list of string will go.
And what I have to do is convert each of them to a simple sentence.
Whatever the list is, I converting it to just a stream, right?
Converting it just a stream, right?
So it will just goes to the flatMap and internally flatMap.
Just simply add it.
So here if you go there right.
So here what it will do is it will call each like this right.
And each element it will pass it to the function interface.
So function interface is accepting lambda expression one parameter.
And what I am doing is I am just returning its stream.
So it's a stream would be like I love Java.
So this is return its stream.
Then second it will go.
It will pass its stream.
So what flatMap will do is flatMap will just add create one more stream and it keep adding on top of
it.
Like it will keep appending, right?
And after all is done, it will have just one stream which all the values.
So what would be the if we just do?
Like this collection two list.
If we take it in a collection and print it.
So it would be like I love Java.
Concepts are clear.
It's very easy.
It's like this only there is nothing like list of list something.
It's just a list of string.
Right.
So that you can do.
And also one more thing.
You can use flatMap also like let's say the same example, right?
I have first step convert it to a stream.
Second using flatMap while iterating over each element and the functional interface.
Right.
So here for this sentence whatever this I have to make it a stream.
So I have because this is a collection also.
Right.
This is again a collection.
So for I am creating a stream out of it.
Right.
I am creating a stream.
So what it will do is I can also change this value.
So it was earlier capital.
I love Java so I can also perform more intermediate operation inside this.
Right.
And I change it to lowercase so whenever it is returning the stream.
So while small lowercase letter right.
So that is also you can take advantage of flatMap.
Right.
So here if you see I got a single stream with all small case.
Right.
So inside a flatMap, uh, when this uh, functional interface method got invoked right Write for this
list, I have created a stream like just a sequence of strings.
I can even add intermediate operation on top of it also.
Cool.
So used to iterate over each element of the complex collection and helps to flatten it.
Then we have distinct.
It removes duplicate from the stream.
So let's say you have an integer array which has certain duplicate.
Now we have to remove it.
How?
Using distinct we can do it.
So arrays dot stream.
So this is the first step to create a stream out of an array array.
Second is putting an intermediate operation.
So I am using a distinct.
So what distinct will do is internally it will iterate over each element and perform a logic to remove
the duplicate.
So output of this would be a stream a stream without duplicate elements, right?
So here I got a stream.
If I put a terminal operator and get it into a list and print it, I will get this.
No duplicates.
Similarly, a sorted as the name says, that sorts the element.
So I have an integer.
I created a stream and then put a intermediate operation sorted so its output would be again a stream
only, but the sorted 1012244579 earlier this one.
Unsorted.
This is sorted.
Right.
So here you can also use sorted.
And you can also put a.
Comparator comparable.
You can provide it.
So let's say if you want to sort in a descending order.
Right.
So you already know that how comparator works.
right?
So you can do well to minus well one inside are sorted.
So it will sort in a descending order.
So there is another called peak.
So what peak will do is nothing like here it do consumer.
So what consumer does let's say that.
Peak.
So what this so it inside a peak it will iterate over each element.
It will iterate over each element, each element of the stream.
And it will call this consumer.
It has one method.
So it will accept one parameter but doesn't return anything.
So here.
So this is the list I am creating a stream.
Step one.
And they are like intermediate operation right.
So let's say this is I am doing filter value greater than two.
So here it will filter like a value greater than two would be three, four, six right.
Then here I am doing peek.
So peek accept iterate over each element.
And for each value it will print because it is not returning anything.
Right.
System.out.println.
It will print right.
So you can use it for printing peaking.
Right.
Then another is limit.
So limit is you can always limit out of this stream how much.
Uh truncate the stream to no longer than the given max size.
So now let's say this is a list.
I have first created a stream out of it, but I want to truncate all the data out of this stream and
only want to keep the three.
So what it will do is limit.
I can put limit three.
So it will just put this three.
So whatever the stream it will return it will have only two one.
Three.
Now I can put terminal operator, take it out on a list and print it 213.
Similarly we have skip skip the first n element of the stream.
So you have a data.
Create a stream out of it.
Now this intermediate operation skip.
So it will skip first three.
So from the stream.
So it will have this stream which will have four comma six.
Only if we put a terminal operator and print it for comma six will be there in the stream.
And then there would be map to n.
So here uh this is also another important thing is that here let's say helps to work with the primitive
int data type.
There would be like map to long which helps to primitive long data type.
So for example, let's say you have let's say see this example first.
Let's say you have an integer array.
But this is primitive data type right.
Primitive data type.
Now you know that there are for this primitive data type how you can create a stream.
So here we can create arrays dot stream right.
And put this integer array right.
What it will return it will return us int stream.
This is very.
Now here it is not returning us stream.
It is returning us int stream.
This is very very specific for primitive integer data type right.
All other methods are same here.
But only this thing is.
This int stream is very specific for primitive integer right.
So here I have created.
First step is I created a Stream.
But here in this case this is int stream.
Now the second step again the same thing.
Nothing got deferred.
I can do filter.
Now see here I can easily work on the primitive data types with the normal stream right with list of
integer and all.
If you are trying to do filter and all you, you won't be able to use int over here.
No.
For that you need int stream.
Right.
So with an integer array when arrays dot stream you can get an int stream.
And then you can do filter.
And you like this anyway.
Normal.
It will work but it can also work with the primitive data type also.
So again another usage of the is let's say you have list of string 2147.
But these are string.
Now here if you see that the first step, I created a stream.
Now second, there is one method map to int right this map to int.
So here inside this map to int, what it will do is that it will convert it to an string.
Right.
So this map to end it might be taking function only map to int.
So it will take this.
So this is the function interface.
It will accept and return the integer right.
It return the integer.
So it will accept anything whether a string or any other value because it's a generic type right.
So map to int will iterate over each element and it will pass it to this function interface.
Right.
So for each element what I'm doing is converting it to Integer.parseint.
So I'm am returning the integer value.
So 2147.
Now in integer form.
So now it is returning int stream.
Returning int stream which is specific for integer small primitive integer type.
And I can convert it to array.
This is a terminal operator and I can get an array and print it.
So map to int is for you got it right.
Map to int is like you can use this like convert it into an integer like this one use case I have showed
you similarly map to map to double.
Can you try it and post it in the comment section one use case which you are using it.
So here these are the 1011 are most frequently used.
Generally intermediate operations I have showed you right.
But now you might be asking like hey you were saying that they are called as lazy?
Why?
Right now, let me show you an example.
So here I'm creating a normal simple class stream example and this is a main method.
This is just my collection or list 2147 ten.
Nothing.
No difference.
Right?
So first step I am doing is from this collection I am creating a stream.
Second is I am putting an intermediate operation filtering this data.
After filtering I am also doing peeking and while peeking I am printing this value right?
I'm printing this value.
So this is.
I haven't used terminal operation yet, so peek is again a intermediate operation.
So output is again a stream.
Now I am running the code.
When you run the code what output you will get nothing.
You won't see anything in the output.
You can say that.
Hey.
Why?
Because, uh.
So you can say that, right?
Hey.
Why?
I haven't seen anything.
Numbers dot stream.
I have opened a stream for this.
Number 2147 ten.
I have done a filter greater than equals to three.
So this should have returned the stream which is greater than three, four, seven, ten.
Then I am doing a peeking intermediate operation where I'm doing System.out.println.
So it should print four 710 right.
It should print four, 710.
Why it is not printing.
So it is known as lazy.
And when I say that lazy means this streams get only executed when terminal operation is invoked.
So now the same thing.
But now for this stream.
Whichever I got Now I am calling the terminal operation numbers stream.
I am putting a terminal.
This is count is one of the terminal operation count.
So what is the count?
One.
Two.
Three.
So three.
So now at this point of time, when it is terminal operation is invoked, this stream actually start
running.
And it will see you will see the output System.out.println.
Val four 710.
So this is the input to the peak right.
So it will print four 710.
So that's why it is known as lazy.
Now I will tell you one more very interesting property of the stream.
You will see that.
Hey what's happening man?
Like this is something new.
So sequence of stream operations.
Okay.
See this?
Okay.
So here.
Till now.
This is very basic.
I have written whatever we have studied till now.
I am creating a stream out of this list.
Nothing new.
So I have used a filter.
Then I am doing peaking.
Then I am doing mapping.
Whatever the value comes after the filter.
Uh, I'm just negating it.
Then I'm again peaking.
System.out.println.
Then I'm sorting it and again picking it.
So this is the stream right.
And this is the terminal operator I have put so that this stream should get run right now what is the
expected output.
So my expected output should be what I'm expecting.
How stream should be working.
So let me have visually have this.
Like first I have created a stream.
So it would be like I have all the values two, one, four, seven, ten.
So a pipeline got created.
The stream got created.
Now first is filter.
So first barrier is filter.
Greater than equals to three.
Right.
So my expectation is first when this stream pass of this barrier or operation filter.
So its output will also be a stream.
Right.
So what it will do is it will filter only greater than equals to three.
So two will get removed one will get removed.
So four 710 would be there in the filter.
Right.
So this stream has four 710.
The second operation is peak.
So this is peak.
So in peak we am just printing out after filter what are the stream.
So four 710.
So it should print System.out.println four, then seven, then ten.
Right.
Then the next operation is map.
So in map what I'm doing is for each four 710 what I'm doing is I'm negating it minus four.
So it will whatever the it is coming four 710 it will put minus four, minus seven, minus ten.
It will do this.
Then after that we have peek again.
So I have peek again.
So peek again I am just System.out.println.
After negating.
So this is the stream is coming to the peek minus four minus seven minus ten.
So it will print that.
So it should print minus four minus seven minus ten okay.
So this peek is just printing, but nothing else.
Then after that, sorted.
So there is one more operation.
There is one more operation now.
Sorted.
So what was the stream which is coming?
Minus four, minus seven, minus ten.
So sorted with sort into an uh.
I am doing a increasing order.
Natural order.
So it would sort like minus ten, minus seven, minus four.
Right.
In increasing order, it sorted, it converted the stream and the last is again peek.
System.out.println.
After sorted what is.
So it will print minus ten minus seven minus four.
So my expectation is that when the terminal operator is invoked and this stream get executed, it should
print this expected output whatever the expected output I have figured out.
Right.
This is what my understanding till now is.
But now let's see the expected output.
You will also get, uh, little bit surprised to see that.
Hey, this is how the stream works.
Let's see that one.
Right.
This is very interesting.
Okay.
Let's see the expected output which actually is present.
You able to see right.
So here if you see the expected output is it matching with our actual output.
Does matching with our expected output.
Hey.
No for first it is doing after filter then after negating.
But we are expecting like this right.
But here if you see these are how they are printed, how they have worked.
First it say after filter, then after negating then after filter seven after negative minus seven.
How it worked.
I will tell you how it works.
So here are again let's say we have six operation right.
So we have filter.
We have then peak we have then map then we have peak then we sought then we again peak.
And what is the stream which first comes to is that.
214.
Seven.
Ten.
Two.
One.
Four.
Seven.
Ten.
Okay.
So when?
Now.
See how it works.
So now what stream works?
Is it?
Pick one element it, pick one element it, give it to the filter.
Or when it passes to the stream, right.
Pipeline it, give it to the filter right.
So it will do.
Filter.
Hey, does two is greater than equals to three?
No it's not.
So this one is remove from the stream for the filter.
Now it goes one.
Hey one is one is greater than equals to three.
No it is not.
So again this is also got filtered.
Then it comes four.
Then it comes here four.
Four is greater than equals to three.
Yes.
Right now it doesn't go stream doesn't go like okay now it will goes to seven.
It's not like so what it will do is it will try to go as much as possible.
So after filter four it goes down to the peak.
Next operation.
So it will print after filter for then it goes down to the map.
What it do is minus one.
So it does minus four.
After that it goes to the down peak.
It is after minus four printed.
But here, if you see that now it is going seven.
After that it is not going bottom right.
Why?
Because there are certain operations.
Right.
Which can be run like this.
But there are certain intermediate operation for which it required all the data to be present first.
Right.
Like sorted.
So sorted.
First of all, the whole stream should be present.
It cannot work on a partial stream like so.
That's why sorted didn't work like here.
After this four minus four seven comes.
So it pick the next element seven.
Right.
So seven is greater than equals to three.
Yes.
So it will peak.
So it will print seven.
After that it will negating it minus seven inside a map.
And then it goes to peak again.
So it will do minus seven.
But again for sorting it's not yet started because the stream knows that it has to have complete stream
available for the sorted.
So then it goes to ten.
Yes ten is greater than equals to three.
Yes, it will pick it up ten.
It will convert it to minus ten.
Then it will goes to peak.
It will print it minus ten.
Now stream has all the data for minus four, minus seven, minus ten.
It will do sort.
And then it will goes to peak again one by one.
So minus ten minus seven minus four.
Right.
So you got it.
What happened?
So here it tries to one element.
It goes sequentially first of all.
So stream goes sequentially and it's not.
And for one element if this operation doesn't require all the stream, all the stream to be all the
stream elements to be present, it goes pass it to the next operation.
It goes and check.
Hey, does you require all operation to be all elements to be present in stream?
No.
Then execute me.
Then execute me like this.
Right.
So this is also added one more advantage to the stream like so this elements process sequentially can
perform multiple operations like this which are right.
And this will give you one more advantage.
For example understand this use case.
You have a huge list, let's say of.
1 million elements.
Let's say huge stream.
Now you have one.
So you have multiple operations, and you have one operation that return any value greater than three.
That's all any value.
Return it.
Return true.
Let's say I want to just return true if any value is greater than three.
Right.
I have let's say four.
Now four is coming okay.
Past operation, past operation, past.
And as soon as any value greater than three.
Yes.
Four is greater than three.
It is.
Stop.
So here, if you see that even at the second it stop, it doesn't have to process the complete stream
at every step to start.
Right.
But there are certain operations like one of them is sorted, which required all stream to be present
before itself, all stream to be present before itself to start.
But many operations are there, which doesn't require all stream data to be present.
So for individual element also they can work.
Right.
So that's one of the advantage of the stream also.
Now let's see one more.
Uh now let's see different terminal operations we have.
So currently we have seen two step how to create a stream.
How to create uh what are the different intermediate operations.
Now let's see what are the different terminal operations.
So terminal operations are the ones that produce the result.
It triggers the processing of the stream.
So first is for each right.
So for each perform action on each element of the stream do not return any value.
So it's just like a peak.
But it's kind of a you can say that terminal operator.
So here I have a list of integer.
So first step I created a stream.
Second step I added a intermediate operation.
Not mandatory to add or you can skip it also.
Then I am just printing it kind of for each element for each value.
Uh it will just print it because this is the one have one, uh, function interface which accept one
value but doesn't return it.
Right.
But since this for each is your terminal, so it will trigger the execution of this stream.
So it will filter.
Greater than equals to three.
Right.
So for 710 will get printed for each with this one.
Similarly one more is two array.
So here you have an array list.
So first step created a stream out of it.
Second is adding an intermediate operation.
Now what I want to do is I want to collect it whatever the stream intermediate operation will return
I have to collect it.
So you when you do two array right it will return object array.
So here inside a stream you have two array.
So this is a terminal operation right.
Here it is.
Return.
This is a terminal operation.
And it returning object array.
But now you can ask that hey like I wanted a specific value in a specific data type array like integer
string array.
How to do that.
You can do that like the first step create a stream.
Second is like intermediate operation.
Nothing changed.
Now inside a two array you can use another flavor where you are just asking that create this integer
type.
So here it take a size.
So here it has one more flavor two array right.
So it has a two array.
The value is nothing but a size.
This right.
The size and output is your.
Array.
I am creating a new integer array of this size.
Right.
So you will get an integer array whatever the stream data you have.
Then another is reduce.
So what this reduce will do.
So here if you see that the first step for this list I have get out a stream.
Now what this reduce will do does reduction on the element of the stream perform associative aggregation
function.
What does it mean.
Associative aggregation function.
So here if you see that 147 ten.
Let's say I want to add two two elements.
First two plus one three.
Then my data would be like this.
Then three plus four, seven, then seven, ten, then seven plus seven, 14, ten, then 14 plus ten,
24.
So this is like associative aggregation function aggregation like sum multiply something.
Right.
And associate.
Associate like this.
So first is done it will become.
Now do with the next one.
Then do with the next one.
Now do with the next one.
Okay so with the reduce is a terminal operation it accepts by binary operation.
So here if you see that.
Reduce.
So binary operation is your it's a functional interface right.
So this is not a Abstract method.
So it would be abstract method would be here.
Okay.
So it accept two values two parameter and return one thing.
So it accept two values and return one thing.
Whatever I wanted to do.
Do I want you to do value one plus value two.
So what it will do is it will pass two to value out of this two plus one three then three plus four,
seven, then seven plus seven, 14, then 14 plus ten, 24.
So it reducing it reducing your stream by performing associative aggregation function.
So now this is a terminal operation.
You will get it return the optional return value.
Reduce value integer.
So when you print it you will get 24.
So optional means like uh it can be null.
Also it can be you can check with It reduced value.
Dot is empty whether it is empty or not, that it's just a wrapper so that it.
You can say that just a way to avoid null pointer exception you can check is empty or not, right?
But if you do dot get it will return the value which has so dot get I got a 24.
You got it right.
Associative aggregation function.
If I do value one into value two, what it will do is two into one two, then two into four eight,
then eight into seven.
Then like this.
Then we have collect.
I have already shown you the collect can be used to collect the element of the stream into a list.
So you have a list.
So first step create a stream.
Second is any intermediate operation then whatever.
So intermediate operation returns you the stream only.
So this is the terminal operation that I am doing collector dot two list.
So it will help me to collect the stream data into a list.
So I have a list now.
Then there is something called min max right?
Finds the minimum or the maximum element from the stream based on the comparator provided.
Very very simple.
You have a collection.
You create a stream, added a filter greater than equals to three.
So means four seven, ten would be generally should be there.
When I do dot minimum, I am doing value one minus value two.
So means I wanted a natural ordering.
So natural ordering like increasing order.
So dot minimum would be return four right.
It return an optional this thing.
Similarly when I do value two minus value one means I sorted in a decreasing order, and when I do minimum
so it will return ten.
So generally, if you see that, I would say that this minimum is a wrong name, I would say that the
first in a sorted in a sorted stream, whether it's a increasing order sorted or decreasing order sorted,
it will get the first element right.
So for 710 when it was minimum value one minus value two means an increasing order.
So dot min gives me the four.
And let's say if I have a minimum and.
But I pass the comparator as value two minus value one.
Internally it will sort in a decreasing order.
So it will give me the first element itself.
Ten right.
Similarly you can test for the max also.
Then we have count.
You already know that the count returns the element number of elements present in the stream, so you
have a stream.
Step one.
Step two.
You filter out for 710 dot count so it will return three.
Now another is any match.
Check if any value in the stream match the given predicate and returns the boolean right.
So here from this list I created a stream second c.
Now here I have don't using any intermediate because intermediate I told you zero or many, so it is
not mandatory to use.
I am using any any match value greater than three.
So yes two one for yes.
So it will return true.
Any right.
So it will return true.
Can you do try this all and none all means if all match the Have condition, it should return true.
None means if none of the value match it, then only it should return true.
It's very, very like simple.
Like by knowing itself, we can know that behavior.
How it works.
Find first.
Find the first element of the stream.
So here you have created the stream.
From this collection I have filtered out the element.
It would be four, seven, ten find.
First it will return four.
Okay.
Find any will give you a random value for 710.
And if you do find any it will return anything seven, 10 or 4.
Whatever.
Find any random element to the stream.
Okay so these so we here we have seen how to create a stream.
What are the different intermediate operation.
And what are the different terminal operations we can have?
Now here I will show you one more thing.
How many times we can use a single stream?
This is also.
You see that I told you stream is created at this point and at the terminal operation.
So this is the terminal operation.
This is the, uh, this is the second step.
Uh, so here.
Sorry, this is not the second step.
So this is the intermediate operation.
And this is for each is the terminal operation.
So whenever this is the terminal operation.
So whenever the terminal operation is invoked a stream is get executed.
And after this one it, it closes the stream.
Or you can say that consume the stream.
Now if you try to use this stream again.
Filtered number.
Stream.
I'm trying to use this stream again.
Filter number dot.
Collect.
I'm trying to perform any operation.
It return me.
This exception stream has already been operated upon or closed.
Done so once.
A terminal operation is executed.
It closes the stream.
It closes the stream which was started right after that.
On this stream you cannot work more.
So from this number or collection.
You have to create another stream and then work on it.
Okay, so just remember that one on a stream, once closed cannot be used.
You have to create new stream.
And at last we have to see that parallel stream.
Also see.
This is to be honest, in last eight years I haven't used parallel stream.
We have used lot of stream in our day to day code, but parallel stream is very less frequently used.
But it's still from the interview perspective.
It's good to know, so it helps to perform operation on stream concurrently.
It takes an advantage of the multi-core CPU parallel stream method is used instead of regular stream
method, right?
So let's before this going, let's see that I'll show you an example.
So here I have a collection I have put a 11 table 11 number.
Table 11 2233 and all.
Now this is the sequential processing whatever we have done till now.
So from this collection I am creating a stream first.
Right.
I am doing an intermediate operation.
I'm doing map and multiplying it with the number.
So I'm.
You can say that I'm just squaring it up.
Right.
So again it would be output would be stream.
And I'm doing for each I'm just printing it out.
Right.
And so before starting this stream I have taken out the time um millisecond time.
What was that?
And after this invocation of this terminal operation stream would get completed.
So now I'm just printing out that sequential processing time taken.
Current time.
Current time minus this time before the stream started.
So that will give you a diff, right?
How much time it took?
That much second.
Now if I wanted to do the parallel processing of the same, what exact same code.
But here if you see that first I have taken out the time.
What is the current time?
Then I'm creating the stream parallel stream.
So here, if you see that from the collection you we were doing dot stream.
So this dot stream creates a sequential stream for parallel.
We have to do dot parallel stream right.
So dot parallel stream.
That's the only difference.
So numbers dot dot parallel stream.
So first step is we have created a parallel stream.
Second step same intermediate operation.
Multiplying it by this third is terminal operation and just printing out the value.
And this terminal operation will execute this stream parallel stream.
And I'm printing out current time minus this parallel time diff millisecond.
So here if you see that this is the sequential printed because of this sequential and sequential take
64 milliseconds.
Now for this parallel processing it will again print it out.
This value.
Right.
Parallel processing time.
Take only five milliseconds.
See?
It's faster.
Why?
Parallel processing is faster?
Because it doing the task concurrently.
How it doing?
What it is?
Whatever the task is, it will divide into subtasks.
Then it can.
Subtask can be divided into more subtasks.
Right.
And after that each sub stars can be run parallely.
It can be run parallely.
Right.
If you have let's say four core CPU, then on each core it can run concurrently itself, right?
It can run concurrently at the same time.
And then we can join the result.
We can join the results and ultimately shows the output.
So this is known as fork join pool technique.
So parallel stream use fork join pool technique to perform the operation concurrently in the fork.
Join fork means divide.
Join means whatever the subtask we have divided.
Every time fork is called as task has been divided into subtasks, the smaller task and join it joins
the result.
So this fork join I will cover into the next our next topic multithreading right.
Because it's multithreading part.
But parallel stream internally uses fork join pool technique to do this parallel processing concurrently.
Right.
So I will cover it into the multithreading topic.
So in multithreading we have thread executor run and fork join is also one more topic also.
So here, if you see that parallel stream, just we see that, uh, I wanted to show you before we come
so parallel stream.
So here, uh, then this collection we have parallel stream.
Yeah.
So whenever from the collection, we are creating a parallel stream.
So here, if you see that it call a split iterator right here, it calls a split iterator.
And if you see this split iterator I will go to ArrayList something.
Right.
So here.
This has a split iterator has one method called try split.
So let's go inside this try split.
See this logic.
What it does is.
This big task which we have like let's say we have this task.
One, two, three.
Let's say this is the collection.
123456789 ten.
So what it does is when you call parallel stream parallel stream, what parallel stream will do is it
will pass this data to a split iterator.
Now inside the split iterator there is a method called try split.
So what it will do is this split iterator has the complete collection now.
So now what will happen is recursively it will call try split.
So what it will do is it will find the mid.
And after finding the mid what it will do is it will create a new split iterator.
So it will split it 123456789 ten.
This is again now split iterator.
traitor.
This is again now a split traitor.
Now again on this split a traitor.
Split it in traitor.
Split a traitor is an interface.
So there is a method.
Try split.
So you can again split it.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
Let's say 910.
So this is again a split iterator.
Split iterator.
These are all split iterator object now.
So who who take the responsibility of splitting the task.
It's the split iterator.
Inside a split iterator there is a method called split which takes out a mid and split it.
And this method has been called by parallel stream function and it called recursively to divide into
a smaller, smaller data.
Now, after the data has been split into smaller chunks, What parallel stream do is it will give this
smaller chunks to fork join pool technique.
Hey, these are the smaller chunk data.
Now you take care of it.
You execute them into uh, different uh concurrently.
Or if you want to divide it further, divide it, do fork it.
Do it like you wish.
I have given you the smaller chunks which I wanted to execute parallelly.
Now you try to run them parallel, right?
So this is how parallel stream works.
Fork join pool.
I'll tell you in the next topic multi-threading.
But this is all totally about stream right from start to end.
Any doubt question like please feel free to ping me in the comment section team.
Uh, and but with this collection is completed, multi-threading is going to be the next topic.
Okay, guys.
Thank you.
Bye.