# Java Variables - Part2 | Reference/Non-Primitive Data Types in Depth

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So let's complete today our variables Java variables part two.
So in the part one we have looked in depth our primitive data types and also how the float memory representation
happens.
And I hope you like that video guys.
So today is we are going to see a very very important concept which is reference data type.
So there are two types of data types you already know primitive and non primitive which is also known
as reference.
So it is also known as non primitive data types.
Right.
So I'll cover today non primitive data type wrapper classes.
And what is autoboxing and unboxing and what is constant variable.
And with that these three things we will complete our Java variables.
Right.
So what is the next set of video.
Next set of video would be methods.
And then main thing memory The management and garbage collector.
Garbage collector.
Okay, so this two upcoming videos after this Java variables.
Right?
So let's start with the reference data type.
So what are the different type of reference data type.
The first is class.
Second is string.
Third is interface fourth is array.
These are the main reference data type.
But first we have to understand what is reference.
Hey what is reference.
Okay so now let's understand with the class.
So I'll explain you this reference concept by the help of a class and others would become very very
easy for you.
Okay so now let's go with the class first.
So now you already know that how to create a class.
So this is the keyword to create a class.
So let's say I am creating an employee class.
So I have created a class employee.
And in this class you know that a class has two things properties and functions.
So this is the property employee ID.
And these are the functions which are nothing but a getter and setters.
Get employee ID so it will return the employee ID set employee ID.
Whatever the employee ID you will set, it will set it right.
So it's a very, very simple, very, very basic class I have created employee.
Now how to create an object of this.
So how to create an object.
You know that new keyword is used to create an object.
So now I am creating an I am in another class student right.
So this let's say this is one method inside that I am creating an object of this employee class.
So how I created the class name.
What is the object name which I wanted to give equals to new the class name.
Right.
So with that, what it will do is it will create a new object.
Now we need to understand what is reference in this.
So here this is heap memory.
So there are different type of memories which I will cover in the memory management heap stack.
And how the garbage collector manage this memory for Java.
Right.
So don't worry about heap and stack right.
But currently for understanding the reference understand this.
There is a memory called heap memory.
And whenever you do new whenever you created an object new employee here in this case.
So what you are doing is you are creating one object.
Here you are actually storing saving certain memory.
Right.
So let's say I'm just saying that let's say it has an address of memory AIJ1246987 something.
So this is a memory, right?
Now what you have done is you have created an object with this new keyword inside a heap.
Memory and space is allocated for this object.
And employee object is what employee object is nothing but a reference.
So employee object which you created.
This is a reference to this space which is created in memory.
So employee object is a reference.
It holds a reference.
So this holds a reference to the actual memory Right.
So that's why it is called as reference data type.
Reference data type.
So means whatever the objects you gonna create that will be created into heap memory and.
Whatever the variable's name which you have defined those actually holds a reference to.
The actual memory.
Understood.
So now I have created a class.
Now when I created an object new employee a memory has been stored for here.
Right.
And this memory reference is hold it into this object emp object emp object.
So this holds the reference to this one.
Okay.
Now understand this.
So you if you are familiar with C I think C++.
So you might be aware of something called pointers.
Pointers I think are when you pass into a method.
So this is method you Who passed.
So you passed via underscore this and percent let's say some object.
So what ultimately it is passing is passing the address.
Right.
So in Java there is no concept called pointers.
Right.
So you might be aware of pass by value and pass by reference.
Right.
So if you are familiar with C++ you know that whenever you pass through under this thing and this means
you are passing a address which is passed by reference.
But in Java everything is passed by value.
Everything is passed by value.
There is no concept of pass by reference in Java.
Okay, there is no concept called pointer.
So how does this, uh, so you know that there are lot of advantage of passing a address or pointer,
right.
Because if anything is change in this method with a equals to.
Let's say here a is ten.
Now you change here 20.
So in that above method a value has been changed.
This all advantage used to come while passing a pointer.
Now we are saying that hey in Java when everything is passed by value how we get this functionality.
That's what because of this data type, reference data type which is non primitive data type.
So I told you now this objects holds the reference to the actual memory.
Now let's say I have created a new employee an object of this class.
So what will happen is a space has been stored in the heap memory.
Now what I have defining is employee object dot employee id equals to ten.
So this has employee ID.
So now what id I'm saying is employee ID.
I am setting it as now.
Ten.
Okay, so employee object dot.
So this is just nothing but a reference to this.
So in this memory employee ID is set to ten.
Now.
Now I am calling a method modify this method I am calling and what I am passing this employee object.
This employee object.
Okay.
So this modify method accept this object employee which is of class type right.
So employee is a class right.
So it is accepting this method.
So now here in this case what will happen is this employee this this is also an variable right.
So this employee now it holds a reference of what employee object which is getting passed here.
So in the modify method I am passing a employee object.
So this will also hold a reference to this employee.
Now in this method I am saying employee dot employee ID to 20.
So employee dot.
So employee dot means this memory dot employee ID change it to 20.
So now it's change it to 20.
Right when I came out of this method.
And when I am the previous method and I'm printing system dot dot println employee object.
So this is the employee object dot.
So reference to it.
This is the memory employee id.
So now it will print the employee ID 20.
So output would be here 20 okay.
So now you see that because of this reference data type we achieve something.
What we use to achieve through pointers in C++ I think right in C++ only we have this pointer concept.
So even though everything is passed by value in Java, we can still achieve through this all this thing
through reference data types Okay, so this is clear, right?
What?
How it is able to change this thing.
Because everything is nothing but a reference in objects.
So whenever you create a object, new employee a memory is stored.
Now whatever you are storing in the reference.
So you access it this memory via reference, whatever the object's name, variable name you have given
dot employee ID ten.
So it will be reference to this.
Now let's say I am creating another, uh, this thing employee.
This employee.
Object one.
Let's say I am creating obj two equals to EMP object.
Employee object.
So employee object was pointing to this.
Now object two.
Also obj two also will point to the same memory.
Now if you change anything in object two dot 2.mp id equals to 30.
This will change.
Okay so currently all these three points to this memory.
So that's why it is called as reference data type reference.
I think you now very much clear what does why this class is called as reference.
Because it holds a reference to the actual memory okay.
This is clear.
Now let's come to the string.
Very very important right.
So let's come to the string.
So now here if you see that even though string is already defined in Java like like in primitive int
float Boolean.
Similarly string is also defined in Java.
But why we consider this as a Reference data type.
Why?
Why not primitive.
Okay.
So let's understand this.
Why we considered a string as a reference data type.
So you know that we have a heap.
Memory inside a heap.
Memory there is something called.
A string constant pool.
This is very very important.
So understand this very very clearly that strings are immutable.
Strings are immutable.
Right.
And there are a concept called string literals.
So you need to understand is why strings are immutable.
And what are string literals trills.
Okay, right.
And why?
They are coming as a reference data type, even though it is defined in Java.
So see here.
The class is like you defined it.
User defined it.
Right?
We as a programmer we define it.
So currently I have created a class employee.
Maybe I can create a class.
Let's say some other class.
Let's say bird right.
So I can define this class.
But here if you see in Java it has defined a string.
But even though Java is defined why it is considered as reference, why not primitive?
I'll tell you why.
So before that, you have to understand that why strings are immutable and what are string literals.
So now let's say you are creating a string variable a string, let's say S1.
I'm creating one object S1.
Hello.
So this hello which we I have created.
This is known as string literal, right?
So this will go inside this string constant pool.
So this will go here.
Hello.
Right.
Now let's say I'm creating another string.
String S2 equals to hello again.
So what it will do is internally it will not create another hello.
First it will check the string pool.
Constant.
Hey does this literal present or not.
If literal is present then what will do is both will point to the same reference to this.
Hello.
So S1 is pointing to this hello literal.
And when you created a another S2 with the hello, what it will do is it will.
Inside a heap there is something called string constant pool.
This is your string constant pool.
So it will go and first check.
Hey, does hello literal is already present or not?
If it is already present, S2 will also point to the same, right?
So now let's see this.
Let's.
And before that I'll show you an example.
But if I create like this string S3 equals to new string.
Hello.
So what it will do is now I am creating a hello again but using new keyword.
So whenever you use a new keyword it will not be considered as a string literal.
It created another object inside a heap which has the word hello, right?
So now here S3 is holding the reference to this one, not the string constant one.
Right.
So now let's see this with an example.
Okay.
So now here let's say that I have I am creating one string S1.
Hello.
So what it might have done is in the string constant pool it have put this literal.
Now I am doing string S2.
Again I am doing hello.
So what it might have done is it will check before uh creating another hello.
It would have checked first the string constant pool and one string literal is already present.
So now S2 will also point to the same.
Now if I do.
S1 equals to equals to S2.
So when you do equals to equals to, what it will do is it checks whether they both point to the same
memory.
Right.
Same memory or not.
So will it.
Yes.
They both point to the same memory in the string constant pool, so it should return true here if you
see that it is returning.
True.
But if I do s1 dot equals s2.
Now it will check the value inside that memory.
So it is hello for s2.
Also it is pointing to the same.
So it would be hello.
So this will also be true.
So this will also comes true.
Now see this.
Now I am creating S3 equals to new string.
Hello.
Now I am doing let's say only now I am saying let's say S1 equals S3.
First I am doing equals.
So what equals will match is the content.
Does S1 and S3 has the same content?
Yes.
Both have.
Hello.
So it will be true only.
So it would be true only.
But if I do now S1 equals to equals to S3.
Are they both pointing to the same memory in the heap?
No, because in the new you know that it would create a separate memory.
So it would be false.
So you understand right.
The key major concept here.
So strings are immutable.
So immutable means when you say that hey S1 now you changing it to hello world.
So it will first check.
Hey Hello world is there.
No.
So it will create another hello world.
But here if you see that it didn't change the previous literal hello.
Now S1 will change and point to the hello world, but hello is still present.
Hello is not changed.
So that's why I say that strings are immutable.
Once created, they cannot be changed, right?
So if you see that here S1 is just holding a reference inside a string constant pool, right?
For a literal or if you create it through new, it will create an object inside a heap, not inside
a string constant.
So you are properly clear in the string.
Why?
Why string is considered as a reference data type, right?
Why?
Because whatever the variable you are constructing, it holds a reference either to a string literal
or to a object which you have created through new.
And what are the string and why they are immutable.
Strings are immutable because whatever the value you have created through string literals.
So let's say you have created through first hello.
It will go inside string constant pool right.
So currently S one is pointing to hello.
Now I am changing S one equals to something.
Let's say s j hello would still be there because s two now pointed to hello, but s j is not present
into their string constant pool.
So it will create s j.
And now s one is now pointing to.
S one is now pointing to s j.
But here if you see that hello is still present.
Hello is not changed, right.
It's just a reference is changed for s one to this one.
And the value is still present into string constant.
Right.
So it's a constant right.
So it just hold a reference.
And I think you are very much clear like what is the string literals.
String literals which are present inside a string constant pool.
Right.
And you are very much clear, right?
How?
With the example which I have given you is a string equals string two and string one equals to equals
to S2.
When we do dot equals it compares the content which is present.
When you do equals equals is.
Check whether they are pointing to the same memory or not, the same memory or not.
Right.
So do practice it.
And then you will understand that this string properly.
Okay.
Now let's understand the interface.
So see interface is also a reference data type very very similar to class.
Nothing much difference.
So now you know that how to create an interface that we can create an interface through a keyword interface.
So I have created a person and one method in the interface I have created a profession right.
And I have created two childs of this interface.
One is teacher.
And if you see that this teacher implements the person.
Similarly, I've created an engineer and it implements it implements the person.
And when anybody implements the interface, it has to override its method.
It has to define because here in the interface it is just a method.
You have to give a proper implementation here.
So here for the profession in the teacher what is the profession.
It is returning teaching.
And in the engineer it is returning software engineer.
So I have created the interface now here in another class.
Now I want to create an object of it.
Right.
So how I can do it I can do in this four different ways.
Let's say I want to create an object of this engineer.
So what I can do is new engineer.
So what it will do is in the heap it will create a engineer object.
Engineer object.
Right.
And where I am storing a reference to person.
So here a person is a parent interface, right?
So a person object holding a reference to this engineer.
Right.
So this is valid.
Similarly I am creating a person another object which is a teacher.
It it holds an object of what it holds an object of.
Teacher.
New teacher.
So I'm creating an object called teacher.
Teacher.
Class.
Object.
And this reference is hold in a variable teacher which is of type again person.
Right.
So as you already know that we can save the object.
We can store the object of a child classes in a parent one.
Right.
Or either you can also store the teacher itself itself into a teacher itself.
You can store its object into the same class itself.
For engineer.
You can store inside an engineer itself, or you can store an object of engineer into its parent reference.
Personal right.
But this is wrong.
You cannot create an object of.
Let's say I am creating a new person, new person in an interface.
You cannot create an object of an interface.
This is wrong.
You can't do new person.
You cannot create an object of an interface.
Why?
You can't create an object of an interface?
Because interface Just define a blueprint.
And like a method which has to be implemented by the child classes.
So child classes has the implementation.
Right.
So okay so this person has this function.
So it implement this.
You can create an object of this.
You can create an object of it.
And this object you can keep it inside a parent one.
Right.
And you know now right.
Why you can even though you are created an object of an engineer, why you can keep it into a parent
one because it is just a reference, right?
Even though this you are not creating an object of a person, you are just holding a reference to an
engineer object, right?
And since it's a parent, it can hold a reference to its child.
So here teacher again a parent holds a reference to a child object Okay.
So this is interface is another type of reference data type.
Now let's see array.
So what does array is.
Right.
So array is nothing but a sequence of memory which stores the same data type.
So let's say I am creating one integer array.
Integer array new int.
Let's say for five.
So this is the way to create an array.
This is one dimension array.
Single array.
So what I have done is I have created
A4512341234501234.
Let's say this is the index of an array.
And this is a memory.
So I have booked created five memory locations inside a heap and this is the array A.
So this holds a reference to this array.
And this array contains.
These are in continuous uh sequence.
And they will hold a single data type.
So what data type it will hold I created a integer.
So it will create integer type like five 610 120.
Right.
So this is the way to create an array in.
Then you can either have like int a or like this or n like this.
Also both are correct way to create an array right.
So here I can create like this new int five.
Right.
So this is also applicable.
What and what you can do is if you want to assign this.
So now you have created a memory of five blocks of n type.
Now you want to fill this.
How you will fill this a zeroth zeroth index you have put let's say ten.
So ten would be store here.
A let's say three index three.
Let's say 40.
So it index 340 will store.
So this way you can do the array new int.
You have defined the capacity of the array and then define this.
There is another way is like int array.
You don't have to do like this new int five.
You can just go like this 30 2010 4050.
So what it will do is internally Automatically.
What it will do is it will see that okay, how many variables one, two, three, four, five.
So it will create a space of five and put into index zero 30.
So it will put 30 here, 20 here, ten here, 40 here 50 here.
Right.
So this is also a way of doing it.
So this is also correct.
You can create like this first memory five and then assign the value for each index.
That is also correct okay.
So there is another called 2D array.
So 2D array is like you would be defining like this a either before the variable and after the variable.
Also correct.
Ah this is also correct.
You can use any okay.
Now you can let's say new integer.
This is your row.
This is your let's say column five by four.
So consider this now a 2D.
So five.
This is your first row.
This is your column.
So by default value of int is zero.
So it would be like it will be created like this.
So five row 12345 and four means column 41234.
So this is your 2D array.
Now you want to fill the value in this how you will fill array.
Let's say I want to put into 012340123.
Now let's say I want to put some value here.
So this is two two.
So two two is 20 let's say.
So row is two.
So 012 column is 2012.
So here now I am putting 20.
So it would be changed to 20.
So RR you can put let's say uh uh, one comma, 330.
So row is one, row is one, column is three, column is three.
So this value is you change to 30.
So this way you can set.
And another way direct way is like how we did in uh this one is you can also do like this.
You can define while declaring variable itself let's say one comma five comma, seven comma, four comma,
two comma three.
You can type like this.
So here what it will create is like 157423.
It created like this.
So two rows.
So there are two rows and three columns 123123.
So it constructed like this internally.
Now you can access like the same uh one comma two.
So one row.
So this is zero one second column 012.
So this value you will get it.
Okay.
So this is how you create a array.
And you already know that y array is a reference data type.
Because array it's uh holds a reference to the actual memory.
Right.
So whatever the value you change it will change in the memory itself.
So this is your array.
See in this this is very very important.
This so many like you should be very very clear about the string constant pool.
Right.
This is very important when you work with strings.
Right.
So how this thing works.
So go again this video you will definitely learn uh just practice create try to create this S1, S2
compare them right.
Are their addresses same or not?
I told you how you can check double equals to dot equals.
Check the content value double equals to check are they are the same memory in the heap or string constant
pool or not.
Okay.
So reference data type is clear class string interface array.
And how in Java everything is passed by value.
Nothing is passed by reference.
But because of a reference data type we can achieve what all within C++ with we can achieve through
pointer.
Okay, now let's move to the wrapper class.
Wrapper class.
Okay.
Now you can ask hey what is wrapper class.
So in wrapper class we can understand it through two things Autoboxing and unboxing.
Autoboxing and unboxing.
So you know that there are eight primitive types eight primitive types int Care.
Short byte.
Long float.
Double boolean 12345678.
So there are eight primitive types.
So in Java, for each eight primitive type we have the respective reference type.
Or you can say that wrapper.
Int we have integer care.
We have a character short we have short byte.
We have this class long.
We have this float.
We have this double.
Is this boolean.
Is this.
Now you can ask me hey why we need for each eight primitive type why we need their respective reference
type, which is known as wrapper.
Right?
Why?
I told you an advantage of reference data type, right?
If you have understand this reference data type properly, you got the advantage.
So there are two main reason of introducing this wrapper classes for primitive.
Why?
First is you got the advantages like in a memory or in a method.
You get the capability like if you pass, if you pass the object and you change it here, ultimately
it will change the memory itself, right?
Because objects refer to the actual address in the memory.
Right?
So here though I have a ten here I have changed it to 20.
But in the previous method if I printed it it will print 20.
So this is the advantage which you cannot get in primitive because in primitive.
So let's say I have int ten here int a equals to ten.
Now I am passing into the modify method let's say int x right.
I'm now changing here x equals to 20.
Now here I am printing System.out.println A which is ten.
So what it will print.
It will print 10 to 10 only not 20 which I have changed right.
So primitive data type is like they are not stored in a heap.
I will tell you in the memory management.
So primitive data type is stored in a stack.
So it is stored in a stack memory right.
So a equals to ten when it is passed to the method int x.
So x has received is like ten.
Now the x value is changed to 20.
So x has value changed to 20.
Now this method finish this from this stack.
This x gone.
And what is this value a.
So A is again ten.
Okay So in primitive type, primitive stores data in a stack and it goes like this.
So there are a lot of things which can which might be needed that, hey, you want to pass the object
into another method, another class.
And there are something change so that need to be reflected.
So that can only happen through a reference data type.
So that's why whenever you need a primitive data type a capability, and you want to pass it to another
method where something modify happen and you want to reflect, you can use this right reference data
type.
Second thing, what are the second advantage?
First advantage I have told you that, uh, change in the like, uh, reference reference capability.
Right.
Second, uh, advantage of using a wrapper here is like all the collections which we will see in the
later videos, the collections.
The very very important ArrayList HashMap.
There are so many Java collections which we have.
They all work on object only reference data type.
They work on reference data type objects.
They do not work on primitive.
So if you want to work or have a data of any type and you want to work with a collection, you want
to create a collection of integer.
You can't create and use this since because collections can only work with an object reference data
type.
So you have to use integer.
So that's why for each primitive type, there is a wrapper class provided in Java, which can help you
to achieve the reference type capability which you wanted for the primitive also.
So let's say you have defined int a equals to ten.
Now when you change it to this integer, it's wrapper integer.
Let's say a one equals to a.
So this is what we are doing is primitive two primitive to its wrapper class.
Primitive wrapper class.
This is known as autoboxing.
If I do this integer x equals to 20.
Now I'm creating int.
Let's say x one equals to x.
So now what I'm doing is wrapper class to.
Wrapper class to primitive opposite.
This is called unboxing.
That's the difference.
Simple.
But the major thing you have to understand is why we need a wrapper class for all eight primitive data
types.
We have a wrapper class there which has an kind of an object.
Why we need it.
Because of that reference capability that it holds a reference to the actual memory, and if anything
change in another method, it will change into the memory and reflect it in both the methods.
Right.
Second is all the Java collections works only with objects, which is reference data type, not with
primitive data type.
Okay, you got wrapper classes.
Then there is something called constant variable which is the another constant variable.
So now you know that uh, in a class let's say employee.
You know that if you can create a static I have already told you the static variable.
Right.
Let's say you have created a static, uh, int uh, employee ID equals to ten, let's say.
So you already know that static from the previous session.
So let's say you have created two objects now.
Employee object one.
Employee object two.
So this static right.
So here let's say this belongs to a class.
This belongs to a class.
So this m id equals to ten.
This belongs to.
So object one also use the same employee ID.
Object two also uses the same employee ID object because it is static and because it is static.
It belongs to a class.
So no matter how many objects you created of this class, all will hold this.
But is it a constant?
No, it is not constant.
If it change, if this object change it to 20, it will change it to 20.
If this object change it to 40.
It will change it to 40.
So how to make it constant.
So we will add final also.
So public static final.
So once you created a final means if you have defined it ten it will be ten only.
Now if you try to change it like say employee ID equals to 20.
No this will be a compilation error.
You can't change the final thing.
So now this is a constant.
This is known as constant variable.
How you can define a constant variable.
Static final.
And you know that in the previous I told you the how you can define a constant variable.
What is the correct way.
Employee ID in the capital let's say ten.
So and so.
Now static means only one copy can exist no matter how many objects you create.
Final make it like no copy can change.
They can only read it this value, but they cannot change it.
They cannot change it.
So now this employee ID is nothing but a constant.
This is known as constant.
This is known as constant variable.
By putting static and final.
Okay.
So that's pretty much on the variables part.
So this is what about variables.
So now you I think you are pretty much clear about uh different type of variables.
How to declare them their naming conventions, primitive data types, reference types now kind of variables,
conventions, uh, conversions, wrappers and final and static variables I told you.
Okay guys.
So that's pretty much on variable.
And now the next video would be on the methods.
And after that we will do memory management and garbage collector okay.
Okay guys.
See you.
Bye.
