# Circuit Breaker Introduction

What does Circuit Breaker says?
This pattern prevents an application to make repeated calls to downstream service that is likely to
fail.
Okay, so we'll come to this line again.
But see this diagram.
So let's say our application is order service right.
And we and this product is a downstream.
So order is invoking product for.
Now assume that this product service is unavailable.
So no matter how many times you call, this call will fail.
Right.
So product service is down no matter how many times whether you are doing a retry of the same call or
whether you are making a totally different call, it will fail.
So there is some disadvantages for it.
The first disadvantage is we put unnecessarily add load to the product service and because of that product
service might take longer time to recover.
So see product services already unavailable, right?
It is facing some issue and we are adding more load to it.
So there is a chance that product service might take little longer time to, uh, come up in the healthy
state.
The second is order services unnecessarily wasting its resources, both latency and the thread blocking.
So just see that if, let's say there are thousands and thousands of calls and product service is unavailable,
they all will fail.
So order service is unnecessarily wasting its resource because there is a latency involved.
It calls it.
It waits for the product service to response till timeout, and then only it will send to the client
that hey, it's a fail some five x error something.
Okay.
So there is definitely increase in latency and you are unnecessarily blocking your thread on this call.
Okay, so there is no need because even if you waited, the call is likely going to fail because the
product service is unavailable.
But now what is the solution?
How does order Service know when to stop the downstream call?
Like we are saying that hey order don't make unnecessarily call to product because it is unavailable,
right?
But how?
Order knows that when it is unavailable, when it is up and when I okay if it is unavailable, when
again I have to restart.
So something has to instruct this.
Uh, you can say that knowledge.
Somebody has to put this knowledge to order, right.
Then only order would be able to stop or restart the call.
So who at that knowledge, that is circuit breaker.
Okay.
So again, revisiting the line which we went ahead in the first place, it prevents an application to
make repeated calls to downstream service that is likely to fail.
So see this diagram now.
So now order service let's say make initial calls.
And both got failed.
So now we will put some threshold value that hey if this many calls get failed means there is some issue
with the product.
So don't make any further calls to it.
So now after that, once that threshold limit is reached, we will stop the future call to product.
So now all future calls.
There is no hit to the product.
We will fail the call immediately.
We will not block the thread.
We will fail the call immediately.
Okay.
And we will wait for some time.
After that we will check if product service is healthy or not, so it will do a trial testing.
After some time, hey, it will send some sample.
Or you can say that the test calls hey is product service is responding properly or not?
If yes, then only it will allow future calls to the product.
Okay, so whatever we have covered here it is can be understand.
It can be understand through this state diagram.
So start from here.
This is the initial state okay.
So for any application the best case is closed.
Closed means that all calls are allowed to downstream service means everything is going good okay.
Circuit is closed.
Means just remember always sometime many times engineer get confused that hey, circuit is closed.
means no calls.
No.
So see, consider this as a circuit.
So when the circuit is closed, then only electricity will flow.
When the circuit is open, then electricity current will break.
Understand?
It is just to remember this.
So when the circuit is closed, all calls are allowed to downstream service.
Now if failure limit cross the threshold let's say five failure six failure.
Whatever the threshold we will set if that many failures.
So see there could be some success.
There could be some failure while making a call to downstream.
But if the failure limit threshold value is crossed, then it moved from closed state to open state.
Now, open state means no calls allowed to downstream service and fail the call immediately.
So after this it wait for a certain time, which is like you can say that timeout period.
After that, let's say it could be ten second, five second, 15 second that, hey, for five second
or ten second, no call is allowed.
After that it moved to half open state.
Half open state says that allow only limited number of test calls to downstream and track their success
rate.
Say I say that hey allowed only three calls.
Allowed only five calls.
So very limited number of calls.
We will send it to the downstream and then track their success rate.
If the success rate is 100%, then circuit can be closed again.
But if the success rate is not 100%.
The state goes back to open.
Okay, so whatever we have seen this can be easily represented through this state of circuit breaker.
