# Design Rate Limiter

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today we are going to do a very very important question designed rate limiter.
But before going further, first you tell me in the comment that in which company you have faced this
question.
Right.
So with that being said, let's move and uh, let's see what how to design a rate limiter.
So first let's understand the problem.
Why we have why we need rate limiter.
So everybody I think knows of this right DDoS attack.
Right.
So here in DDoS attack what happen is attacker sends unwanted request to a server.
And each server has a limited resources Ram and disk space.
So everything is limited.
So now what happens is attacker send lot of thousands and even lakhs of requests in seconds that all
of these resources are consumed and the server becomes down.
And when the server becomes down, what happened to the genuine user?
So when genuine user do a request, their request will get declined.
So that's what is known as DDoS attack.
And to prevent this we bring the rate limiter.
And that's what it makes it.
The most important interview question that because as a backend software engineer you have to work on
APIs.
So you should be aware of how to, uh, limit a rate on APIs.
Okay.
So let's jump into the rate limiter part.
But before that before we do designing of this rate limiter.
Right.
There are certain algorithms which you should be aware of it.
Right.
Uh, without those it is very difficult to uh, come up with the design itself.
So let's there are five algorithms which you should know, right?
I will try to explain in a very simple and quick manner.
So first is token bucket, second is leaking bucket.
Third is fixed window.
Fourth is sliding window.
And fifth is.
Sliding window counter.
And this counter words come from fixed window counter, sliding window lock and sliding window counter.
So these are the five algorithm token bucket leaking bucket fixed window counter sliding window lock
and sliding window counter.
Right.
So let's start with first algorithm.
Token bucket right.
What does token bucket is.
So here understand with simple diagram.
So bucket as the name suggests there is a bucket.
So this bucket has certain property like capacity.
What is the capacity of this bucket to hold.
Capacity of what to hold token.
Let's say I say four.
So it can hold.
Let's say four.
Token.
Maximum.
Right.
If you try to add more token, it will.
It will overflow.
If you try to add more token okay.
And there is also something called refiller.
This is known as refiller.
So Refiller has a property that uh, that in 1 minute or 2 minute or three minute, how many token it
will add?
Let's say two token.
So this is all driven by configuration.
This is driven by config.
This is driven by config file.
Like we can change it when I say config file means these are dynamic values.
You can change it.
So token bucket has bucket which has capacity.
What it can hold tokens.
How much.
Let's say for example in this case four right.
And there is something called refill or refill.
Our work is to keep add tokens after a particular time.
In this case I'm taking that after one minute two tokens will be added.
If tokens are accesses means already four are there and one minute done.
So Refiller will add two tokens so there is no space in the capacity.
So those two tokens will get into overflow means they are removed.
So now how this token bucket is used.
So if you see that whenever a request are coming.
So whenever my particular request are coming, what it will do is it will first check.
So there will be first condition.
Right.
And the condition will be on the bucket.
Right.
What?
It will check.
Is there a token present?
Right.
If there is a token present, yes.
Then this request will consume one token.
This request will consume one token.
Let's say it has three token currently at present for example.
So when this request comes in, it consume one token and the count will reduce to two.
If there is no token, if the token is zero, then if there is a token has token no then it will request
will be denied.
Right?
So this is generally a small uh you can say that flow diagram how the token bucket works in.
So now you got this flow.
So now we can configure this token bucket like per user, per API wise.
Each user.
This is my rule for each user.
Three counter or three token.
You can say that three token right?
And for per minute, in per minute or in one minute right for post API.
Tweet post API let's say.
So this is one rule.
This is one rule.
So rule can be right for each user.
For each user right.
How many token available three per minute to tweet post.
So how we can do is like for each user it can be store some counter.
What is the counter or token that say currently it is present three and when a request come post to
it post to it.
So it will see that counter is present three.
yes for each user.
So counter is three.
So it will reduce the counter to two and it will put some timestamp let's say time.
When the request comes let's say 1001.
Right.
So now let's say there is another post to it request.
Come.
Right.
So what does rule says that in one minute three tokens are present.
So again user one.
So I am maintaining each user wise right.
So counter is still two.
So counter will get reduced.
Counter will become one.
And let's say time is still inside a one minute right.
So let's say 1001 something 25 let's say another post request come post with same user counter will
become zero.
Right?
And the time it came is again within a time limit let's say.
or 35 seconds.
Not one minute is completed.
Let's say another post.
Tweet.
Come again.
User one now counter is zero.
Now if you say counter is zero, now there is.
Till now Refiller has not yet run right Refiller let's say I am here saying that Refiller is Refiller
fill in one minute it will fill two token.
Let's say for example.
Right?
So till now, one minute completed.
No, one minute is not yet completed.
So this request will get counter is zero.
This request will not be entertained.
This is remove denied.
Now let's say one request.
Another coming is post at 1003 for example.
So now in 1003 what would be the counter refiller had added?
So 1001 means 1001 to 1002 N02 one minute 1001 to 1002 and 1002 to 1003, so it might have refilled
the counter, right?
So let's say the capacity was three, capacity was three and it was become zero.
So here at after one minute it will refill have added two token.
So out of three.
So counter become two.
Then another request and after another minute refill have run and it will add it two token.
So two token it will try to add but the capacity is only three.
So it will add one.
And one token will get overflow.
So this is become my counter and one request is coming.
Then it will say that counter is again three.
And the request will be processed.
So counter it will reduce one counter because of one request.
So it will become two and it will put timestamp.
I hope the what I wanted to show you that this token bucket can be easily implemented through counter.
Right.
So this is very easy.
And if you see that right.
One more thing.
I just wanted to tell you that whenever any request is declined, HTTP code which is return is 429 means
access request in a time limit, right?
I hope you got it.
The token bucket right.
Now let's go to the leaking bucket.
Leaking bucket is very simple.
Leaking bucket is very simple and very similar to token also.
So here in the bucket what happened is again it's a bucket right.
Leaking bucket as the name clarify.
So there is one.
There is one tab.
You can say that from where requests are coming right.
Irregular flow or sometimes more sometimes less.
And this bucket has a capacity.
Fixed capacity.
Right.
So it has a fixed capacity.
Right.
And out of this request which are coming in.
So these are requests out of this request coming in there is a leak.
So leak means at a fixed rate at a constant rate at a constant rate this request are processed.
So if the incoming request has more and uh or in the more rate than what we are processing, then there
will be overflow and that requests are denied.
Right.
So here the leaking bucket is implemented through queue.
It is implemented through queue.
So here this here what happen is so let's say when the request are coming.
So request will come and then it will do a check or it will do a check.
Right.
So is Q full.
So there is a Q present here which has fixed capacity.
So if Q is not filled no then request is added here in the Fifo form first in first out.
And from here it will be processed in a constant rate process.
In a constant rate.
So this is request one.
Similarly request two like this.
It will be added if the queue is full.
Yes the request will be denied.
And HTTP which code will be sent for to nine.
Right.
So you got it.
So here if you see that the only disadvantage of this algorithm is this is simple but disadvantage of
this algorithm is that there are certain are there are certain.
You can say that application in which the constant burst can come.
For example, take an Amazon Prime, right.
So maybe during day time the traffic is not much as compared to evening or night.
Right.
So this is a valid kind of scenarios.
In that case this leaking bucket rate limiting will not work because when the new.
So this is the new request and this is the old request is still holding in the queue.
Because these here it is going slow.
So this is a specific requirement.
So ask from the interviewer like what the application they are developing.
And do they require a constant rate.
Right.
So depending upon an algorithm.
Similarly if it is kind of an Amazon Prime this algorithm is not efficient okay.
So you got it.
The leaking bucket algorithm.
The third one is fixed window counter.
This is again very very simple.
Fixed window counter is a time frame.
Let's say we have 24 hour time frame right.
It divides into let's say particular time limit.
Let's say for example uh two 2 or 5 five minutes time frame, let's say 8:00 80580 ten right.
Similarly, you got it right.
So let's say this is my fixed window.
This is my fixed window, let's say what is that fixed window is five minute right.
And counter what is means each window has a counter.
Each window has a counter.
So fixed window is this.
And counter is let's say uh three means each fixed window will get a three counter.
Or you can also define this right.
So we have like you can change it from 3 to 4 4 to 5 right.
These are config derived.
So from five minutes you can change it to two minutes time frame right.
So I'm just taking this as a example.
So now when the request are coming request one.
Okay.
So three it will reduce to two.
Another request come within a time frame within a particular fixed window.
So it will reduce to one.
Another request comes.
It will reduce to zero.
Now another request.
Try to come.
Now here if you say counter is zero you can't add it more.
So this will be denied.
You got it.
So.
And again.
Again in the new window it will again counter is set and again it will be processed.
But it has one disadvantage right.
So this is a very big disadvantage.
Disadvantage is like let's consider this.
80580 1008 ten.
Let me make it clear.
810 815.
So this is counter three.
This also has counter three, right?
So now let's say at this point before this time frame finished, at this point there are three requests
come in.
So request one.
Request two.
Request three.
Right.
So it is still within a still within a time frame.
It is possible.
Right.
Counter is three.
And also let's say that within the second time frame request comes here.
Request one.
Request two request three.
It is possible right.
Three counter.
And it's a new time frame.
But if you see as a overall from the higher perspective within a 1 minute or 5 minutes.
Five minutes.
In five minutes it should be three.
But here, if you see in five minutes how many happened?
Six.
So in the edge scenarios, when the request comes on the edge, the disadvantage is the number of the
tokens, right.
Or the request can be double right.
So for which our system might not be ready.
So this is what the fixed window counter and its disadvantage.
Right.
And this problem is get solved by sliding window log.
Sliding window log has solved this problem.
Very simple sliding window log.
So sliding window log is very simple right.
So I think in DSA we have no sliding approach right.
Design one design sliding window.
Right.
So similarly in this case.
So here earlier we were divided into fixed time frame Minute to minute fixed time frame and a counter
right.
But now here the sliding window is.
First of all it is not counter, it is log.
Just remember this but I will come to this.
So what sliding window is now time?
Uh, the window slides.
There is no fixed time frame first.
And how we use a log for this sliding is I'll tell you.
So let's say first request comes in, let's say I let's say I will take uh for example three requests
per minute.
Right.
Three requests per minute is my allowed, uh, configuration.
Right.
So now what will happen I am using sliding window log.
So in the log what does we log.
We log timestamp right.
So now let's see how.
So now let's say a request comes per minute.
Just remember I am doing a per minute.
So let's say one request is coming.
Request one.
Let's say it come at ten.
10 or 10.
Right.
So I'll put a timestamp.
So it is logging a timestamp.
Now its size is become 110.
This is one I'll log it.
So I log the timestamp right.
So now let's say another request.
Coming request two at what let's say within.
So currently a window is there.
Right.
So this timestamp consider timestamp as a sliding window.
So so ten oh ten now window started let's say.
So what is that per minute three request.
So per minute done know from the last one.
And it is in a sorted form.
So now let's say this is come at 20 right.
So it is within a time frame.
Yes.
So it's my ten o 20.
It's within a window of one minute.
Right.
So three requests to size become two.
It's still a valid again requests come.
Third request come.
Ten oh oh.
Let's say 40 again.
This is the window till uh, this is my starting window.
Does one minute finish.
No.
One minute is not finished.
Right.
So.
And the request is three and the size is two.
So it is still a valid.
So I will log it 40 size will become three.
Right now let's say one more request is coming.
Ten oh oh 45 so it will log.
Ten oh oh 45 right now it will check does limit crossed from this is the starting right.
All this in sorted form, right?
This is still the starting point.
So does one minute cross.
No, one minute is still not crossed.
Right.
But can I, uh, entertain this request?
No.
Size is three and three requests are only allowed, so this will be declined.
So this will be declined.
But it will lock this one.
It will lock this one right now, let's say another request are coming.
Another request are coming at uh, let's say 1001 something at 20.
This is another request coming at 1001.
Right.
So now first of all, it is now if you see that it has crossed the limit now window is crossed zero
one window is crossed right.
Zero zero.
Now zero one new window started.
Right.
One minute is done.
So means window.
Window has to slide.
How it will slide from the top sorted it will remove, it will remove till it comes into a window.
It will remove this disadvantage of this disadvantage of this is like I told you, right?
Even the request is denied.
We are storing its log.
It takes lot of space because even the request is denied.
We are storing it.
Timestamp I hope you got it right.
So now we have one more thing is last is then after that we will do a complete design.
Sliding window counter.
Sliding window counter is.
So here now we have is sliding window.
Counter.
So sliding window counter adds two functionality.
One is fixed window counter plus Sliding window lock.
Window counter solves make use of this two approach, and we know that it takes an advantage of the
both.
So the in the fixed window counter.
The usage of the counter is very intuitive and very easy to implement.
And the sliding window lock.
The advantage is it solves the disadvantage of the previous one.
Right.
And during the edge it is possible that double the request can comes in.
So sliding window lock solves that right.
So sliding window counter is very easy to implement.
Let me tell you that how it can be done.
So let's say there is a time frame of let's say uh one minute rule is what is the rule in one minute,
not more than five requests can come, for example.
Right.
So let's say 801802803 and let's say all have a counter like in fixed window counter.
Counter is ten.
Right.
So there are request present here.
Request can be present here.
Request request request some request.
So some request could be here.
So now let's say a particular window.
So this is what used to happen in fixed window counter.
We have a time frame.
We have a counter right.
And now we are using the sliding window also.
So now let's say currently the time frame which is running is this.
Right.
This is the time frame currently which is running right.
So here consider this as the previous time frame.
And consider this as a current time frame.
Current time frame right.
So ultimate goal here.
The ultimate goal of the sliding window counter is to find the number of requests present in this window.
In this window, particular one minute window.
So we are calculating one minute, right.
So in this one minute how many requests are present.
Right.
So it is very very simple.
It's a normal math formula.
Right.
So here if I divide this into this current time frame.
So in current time frame we already know that two requests have already come two plus right.
Two requests has already come.
So now here we just need to find out how much how much request will here.
So it's a very simple formula right.
So you know that let's say this is 6060 interval one minute 60 interval.
And let's say this is present.
This sliding window, this part in the previous time frame is span around ten second ten interval.
So it is very easy to find out the number of requests.
So let's say 1234566 request.
Or we can say that in 60 interval six request 123456.
In 60 interval six requests.
Then in ten interval how many requests we know right six divided by 60 into ten.
That's what it is six divided by 60 into ten.
So this is what generally it try to find out the percentage here.
Try to find out the how many request will come here in this one.
How many requests are there out of total.
Right.
Once we know how many requests are there plus the current time frame request, then it will compute
that uh, does it less than five request or not?
Right now we have all done.
All done the algorithms.
Now let's come up with the diagram of this one.
So what all components we have seen what all components we have seen what all components we have seen.
Right.
So you know that in bucket we need counter.
Right.
So this is something we need to update fetch and delete counter.
Right.
So definitely we cannot use disk because disk are very slow.
So definitely we need something kind of in memory.
So Redis is the one we have to use to maintain a counter let's say right.
And token bucket we use counter in leaking.
We are using a queue right.
So we might need use a reddis.
And I also told you that we are using a config file in many place where we store the config.
All these are nothing but a config.
How many fixed window counter like in per minute?
Three requests per minute.
These are nothing but a config.
So we definitely need config also, right?
So now let's design the.
This one.
Let's say we have a client.
We have a server.
Right.
And we need to put a rate limiter.
Right.
So rate limiter.
So this algorithm should be hosted by someone.
Right.
So there are two ways.
If we host some rate algorithm rate limiter here.
Right.
And it will have the appropriate algorithm or or let's say we can have a proper rate limiter here.
In mid between a client and server.
So that depend upon the meeting or discussion with the interviewer that what he suggests, right, based
upon the company requirement.
So if, let's say, if client send a request and there is no gateway in mid, there is no gateway in
mid.
So can we we can ask that we can host the rate limiter algorithm here.
Right.
And let's say there is already certain concept like API gateway which do authentication and all.
So we can put a rate limiter algorithm there so that any request comes in.
It goes through our API gateway which is hosting our rate limiter.
And then it goes to the server.
Right.
So I am assuming that we are going with this.
So how we will do there is let's say we have a client.
Then client send a request to our rate limiter or API gateway.
You can say that rate limiter right.
And rate limiter will send a request to our server.
This is We know basics.
Now, I told you that we need a reddis to maintain a counter queue and all these things.
So definitely rate limiter also should have.
Reddis which will maintain like okay, this is the counter updation and all.
It has supported various features like fetch, update of counter queue and various things.
Similarly there will be some config files like config files.
So generally config files are stored somewhere on disk and.
But we cannot read config files directly from the disk.
So we have to maintain some cache in mid right because config files are changed very less frequently.
So it's okay.
Whenever the our application starts we will load the config file into cache and our rate limited.
Read that config file from the cache right.
So.
And based upon that algorithm, it will either send 4 to 9 or send okay or success.
Right.
So this is generally the very high level design of uh rate limiter.
But most important are algorithms in this realm right.
So you got it right.
What are things which we can do.
So here read this is like it is uh, so let's say one more follow up question can come is let's say
this is distributed.
There could be multiple rate limiter.
So this is rate limiter one.
Rate limiter two.
Rate limiter three.
There could be distributed rate limiter.
Right.
And client might have come here.
Client can come go there.
Client can go there.
So to answer this is always say that red is we will use red is because red is is what is like Centralized
data store.
It is centralized data store, so everyone has access to this one.
Now the follower follow up question can come is like Redis does not maintain atomicity.
Atomicity.
What and why we needed let's say for the bucket token bucket we are maintaining counter.
So let's say this is also read the count.
So let's say the client send a parallel request to rate limiter one, rate limiter two and both read
the counter.
Let's say currently here is two.
Both read counter two.
Right.
So that could cause an issue.
Right.
So then client uh interviewer say that if you use a redis which is a centralized data store, how you
will maintain a atomicity.
So one one of the answer could be like there are certain already solution present to bring.
So means we can add atomicity.
We can bring atomicity to the reddis, but the overhead would be little.
Bit latency.
Right.
But there are already solutions present which we can use it and bring the atomicity to this one.
We don't have to develop from our own.
Right.
Um, but the only thing is latency.
But if you say that.
Yes, yes, we can use this and we can bear the latency, then definitely we can use this.
Otherwise this is you can say that one of the limitation of having this and there are some little bit
loopholes.
I think it is pretty much clear to you and all this five algorithms and the high level design of it.
And guys, please do share it with your connections if you like it.
And I really need your feedback where I can improve and all.
So waiting for your comments guys and wish you luck for your interview.
Good luck.
Bye.
