Hey guys, on this side, welcome to concept and coding.
Uh, in JPA till now we have seen about what is JDBC and in JPA architecture and first level caching,
second level caching.
Right.
And many more things.
So today let's go further and see more annotations and how the mapping of the entity and tables happens.
So this is the first thing we have to configure in our application dot properties spring dot JPA dot
hibernate dot DDL hyphen auto.
What does it do.
It's a configuration which tell hibernate regarding how to create and manage the DB schema.
So we have to add it into application dot properties file.
Okay.
So here here if you see in the application dot properties we have to add this value.
So in the application dot properties, we have to add this value so we can provide certain values like
none.
Update.
Validate.
Create.
Draw.
Okay.
Depending upon our use case we can define any one of them.
So the first one is the none.
It do not create schema.
Do not update schema.
Do not delete schema.
Actually it does nothing and it is good for production.
So for production I would always recommend use this only.
Nothing else.
Because in production we do write DB script and then give to DBA.
DBA will run.
We have a plan for rollback.
Everything okay.
So always use none in the production while you are doing development update is a good choice like here.
Like it will create schema.
If it is not there it will update the schema.
Okay, if it is already there, let's say you are.
There are already four columns.
Now in your entity.
There are five columns, so one new column.
So it will update it.
It will add new but it will not delete anything.
Okay does update but without deleting any existing data or schema.
Good for development environment.
The third one is validate again it do not create.
Do not update.
Do not delete any data or schema.
It just validate or do a matching between the entities and the DB schema.
Right.
Whatever the entities which you have created in your classes and it will match that both are matching
or not.
If it find any discrepancy it will throw an exception.
Then fourth one is create.
It will create a schema update schema and yes, it deletes schema also.
So drop and recreate the schema during application startup.
So whenever you start your application, right.
So first it will drop.
Drop all the data, all the schema and then creates a new schema fresh.
Similarly there is something called create hyphen drop.
It is very very similar to create.
But only thing is when you start an application it will create the schema.
But when you shut down the application it will drop the schema.
Okay.
So create what it does is during application startup itself it first drop and then recreate here.
What it will do is during startup it just do only create and during application shutdown it do only
drop.
Okay.
You can test all these things by keeping the value here.
Let's say for say I am using create hyphen drop okay.
So now when I start an application so what it does It just create trouble.
When I stop the application now, I am stopping it.
So during a stop, it drops it.
Okay.
Similarly, if I use create, you know what will happen during create only it will first drop and then
create okay.
So first it will drop table and then create okay.
So we can easily validate uh using this.
And we can choose depending upon our choice.
But I have already told you in production always go for none.
And development uh, update is sufficient.
Okay.
Before proceeding further, let me also tell you about difference between DB and schema.
I am not sure I am, uh, I am pretty much sure many of you are already aware of this.
It's a nothing related with Java.
It's a DB concept.
So there are two part write db and schema.
A db can have multiple schemas, right?
Schema one.
Schema two.
Schema three.
Schema four.
Right.
So you can in this schema you can have logical grouping of tables.
Table one.
Table two.
Table three.
Let's say table four.
Table five.
Table six belongs to schema two.
Similarly you can logical group the tables into different schemas.
So how these are helpful right.
Generally in organization where they have only one DB but there are multiple teams.
So they can create different schemas for each team.
And they can provide a proper ownership to the different team to each schema.
So they can utilize only one DB, but inside one db itself they can have multiple schema.
And each schema ownership belongs to one particular team.
You can say okay, so they can group their tables in a particular schema, and they own the ownership
for that one.
If you don't provide any schema, then you are ultimately adding your table directly here.
Okay, so that is also right.
But uh, if, if, if you can say that in your company, each team has their own DB, then this is okay,
right?
My team has my own DB so that is okay.
I don't have to create a schema, but there are a scenario like if one db is shared by multiple teams
then schemas comes into the picture.
Okay.
So that's your uh the term schema.
We are saying it right.
Okay.
Now let's start.
The first thing we have to start with at the rate table annotation.
So if you remember from our previous video, while creating an entity, I was using the entity annotation
because this will tell that JPA has to look for this class and treat this class as an entity means it
is equivalent to a table in a DB, okay.
And each instance of this entity considered as a row in that table.
But we were not using at the root table annotation till yet.
Why?
Because it's an optional field.
If you don't define it, hibernate will create the table name based on the entity name.
So my entity name is user detail.
So maybe hibernate internally will create user underscore details.
So generally S2 will create all capital letter and follow the camel case whenever there is a camel case
it put underscore.
But you can specifically mention yourself by at the root table itself.
Give the name.
So when you will check your DB you will see that this name, whatever you have defined here that will
come.
Okay.
So if you see inside this table annotation, this is the name which is used to provide what specific
name you wanted to give to your table.
Okay, then there is something called schema.
I already told you what schema is, right.
So if you want your table to be part of a particular schema then provided here.
Okay.
If you don't want to be part of any schema, don't add it.
Okay.
So now here, if you say that I want to part of any schema.
So I put schema and provided the name onboarding.
So there is one schema.
So remember that hibernate not automatically create this schema.
We have to create the schema.
So here in this case how we can create the schema is see this one.
So in application dot properties there is something called spring dot data source dot URL where we have
provided.
What is the DB.
Okay there we have to provide like this.
Init equals to.
Now we have to create a schema.
Create a schema.
If not exist, whatever the name of the schema you want to give.
If you want to create more schema, you can another add like create schema.
You can add as many schemas you like this wanted.
Okay so we can create a schema first.
Schemas are not.
If you just write schema here but not right here.
Hibernate not will not automatically create schema.
It will say that schema not found.
So we first have to create schema like this okay.
Then we can tell that okay this table should belongs to this schema.
If you don't want to be part of this or any schema don't write it okay.
So now what would happen is if you see there is one schema already created okay.
And now this user details and goes here.
User detail goes here.
So there I also have one more entity which is like order details, right?
And I didn't use any schema so it directly goes under the DB.
It is not under part of any schema.
Okay.
So and I already told you what schema is.
It's nothing but a logical grouping of tables.
Okay.
You can provide some permission that only these these these teams or engineers will have permission
for this schema.
Nobody can access it apart from those rules okay.
So that's why if you want you can use schema provide like this only in the condition that you have defined
the schema or created the schema before itself.
So then you have third one here in this table attribute is unique constraints.
So like this you can add in a table.
We have multiple columns which you want it to be unique.
Okay.
Column one.
Column two.
Column three.
Let's say you want certain columns to be unique.
Then you can define like this.
So unique constraints equals to.
Right.
And it accepts the annotation unique constraint annotation column name whatever the column name which
you have provided.
So single column unique constraint.
So I might have a column name phone.
Now I made it unique constraint.
So all the values inside it would be unique.
Similarly you can also club together two columns together composite unique constraint.
So they both together should be unique.
Name and email together should be unique.
Okay.
So you can give like this column names equals to this one at the unique constraint.
Okay.
So this is a table level.
So in in a particular table whatever the columns you have you can provide this uniqueness constraint
like this.
Okay.
So now here if you see that this is my fields columns and I have put a constraint.
Unique constraint on phone and name and email.
So if you check the schema here I will see that uh.
Here I can see that phone number is constraint added UK is uh unique key right.
Unique constraint.
Similarly this both email and name they both are same key right.
Because I have used it together.
So together they form a unique constraint.
Okay.
So like this you can add more values.
So table has one more attribute which we can use is indexes.
So here if you go here.
So we can add indexes like this.
You can use indexes equals to and any number of index you want to create on a columns of a table.
So now let's say that I want to create.
So these are my column I want to create an index on phone.
Okay.
So I have put the name name of an index in the column list which is a string I give like phone.
This is the column name.
So on phone this index is created okay.
On phone.
Similarly I created another index okay I gave this name.
And on the composite column on this two columns, I have added it.
So here column list.
If you go inside this index annotation right column list is then a string.
So it accept like this okay so name comma comma separated.
So comma separated column we can provide so name comma email so index on composite columns okay.
So here if you see that the same name which is on name and email okay.
So now it's been indexed.
Now we have to see at the rate column annotation.
Very simple.
Again it's an optional field.
If not defined JPA will add it with default values okay.
So now let's say that I have created uh entity and I provided the table name user underscore details
okay.
And uh, now these are all the fields, even though here and here I haven't provided the rate column.
And for this I am providing at the rate column.
JPA also add annotation for this for this but with default values.
But here I am not using default values, I am setting mine so at the rate column name even though its
name.
But in the db I want name full underscore name.
Okay, so if you see that in DB what name comes full underscore name, not just name okay.
So that is one thing.
Another thing is if there is only one column you want to make it unique, you can also do it here.
Unique equals to true.
Similarly as we saw above right we have unique constraint.
So there also you can use it on a single column.
Or if you don't want to use at a table level you can also use at a column level.
So you can use like unique equals to true if you want to make it nullable true or false.
That value can be null or not.
You can provide like it can be empty or not.
So by this attribute you can set it and even the length of the field you can determine if you don't
provide this value.
JPA internally set the default values like email.
It will be considered as capital or hibernate.
Generally for S2, everything are turned out to be a capital letter, right?
And phone it changed to phone but with default values.
Unique might be false, nullable might be false, length might be let's say 50 okay.
So some default values it will set.
Okay.
Now these are the two another important annotation.
We have to be aware at the rate id annotation and at the rate generated value annotation.
So now what at the rate id is used for It is used to mark the field as a primary key.
Okay, every table should have one unique value, which is used to uniquely identify each record that
is known as primary key.
And in an entity and in an entity right.
The class we can use at the rate ID annotation to mark the field as primary key.
So each entity can have only one primary key.
So each entity at the rate entity cannot can have only one primary key, and only one field can be annotated
with at the rate id I can't do like hey, this is also at the rate ID email is also at the rate id no,
only one field.
We can mark it at the rate ID.
But now your question might come.
Hey what about the composite primary key in composite key There can be more than one column.
Then how to do that?
Because we have put a constraint that at the rate ID can only be used on one field.
But what about the composite primary key how it can be handled.
So there are two ways to handle composite primary key.
One is using at the rate embeddable and at the rate embedded ID.
Another is with at the rate ID class and at the rate id annotation.
Okay, so we'll see this.
But there are certain rules which we have to follow.
So it must be a public class.
So we create a new class where we provide all the fields which are composite primary key.
That class should be a public class.
I will provide you a reason Also, it must implement the serializable interface.
Write that public class need to implement the serializable interface.
It should have one no argument constructor and must override the equals and hashCode method.
Okay, so there is a proper reasoning why this rule need to be followed.
And we'll see that.
First let's see with this at the rate ID class and at the rate id annotation how composite primary key
can be defined.
Primary key.
It's already clear right.
We have already seen example.
Here I am using primary key at the rate id okay.
So ID is my primary key PK.
But for composite key see how to do it.
So first approach let's say that using at the rate ID class and at the rate id annotation.
Now let's say that this is my table okay I have created an entity.
This is the table name which I have given.
These are the field, and I want these two columns to mark as a composite key name and address.
Together they uniquely identify a row.
Okay, so now here in this how we can do is I can't put at the rate ID here at the rate ID here.
Note it won't work.
So we first approach we are using it at the rate ID class.
So see this one.
So I have created one class public class.
The first rule I have created a public class let's say user details seek composite key.
And I have implement the serializable second rule.
Okay.
We defined all the fields which I wanted to considered as a composite key.
So I want name and address right.
So I put name and address here.
The third rule it should have one won no argument.
Constructor even if you don't write it.
Generally a default constructor is always added if you don't have any argument constructor, but for
uh, rules to follow.
Just to say I mentioned here that this is the third rule which says that there should be one no argument
constructor should be present.
And the fourth rule says that we should override the equal and the hashCode method.
So I have override it.
So I have name and address.
Right.
So equals I have said that if object whatever the this object and the object which is coming, if both
are equal directly return true.
No problem.
The other use case is that if the object which is coming and this objects are different than return
false.
If the instance instance is same, it is still a user details, then I can compare this individual value.
Also, if value is also matching name and address is also matching, then I would say that yes, they
are equal.
Okay.
Either.
So in short, either both the objects, this object, the one in the parameter and the one this object,
if both are same, then return true.
If both objects are different but of same type, then we individually compare all the values like name,
address.
If they both are equal, then we say that yes, the both objects are equal and similarly hashcode.
I am using objects dot hash and passing this list of values, and internally it will create some hashcode
and return.
Okay, so this is the fourth line.
You have to provide your own functionality for the equals and hashCode.
I will tell you also why now once this class is created, what we have to do is in your entity class
where you have defined your table.
There we have to use this at the rate id class annotation and this is the class user details k dot class.
Okay, like this.
We have to provide this annotation and whatever the fields for which you have determined a composite
key, you have put at the rate ID over here.
So remember that this ID is not equivalent to that primary key.
No.
Now you have annotated your class with at the rate ID class right now, whatever the at the rate ID
you will put on the field, those together would be considered as composite key.
And those should be present into this class here.
Okay.
Now here, if you see the schema, uh, you will see that index name it created on address.
And name this address and name it created a composite key together.
Okay.
so this is one way.
But now your question can come in, say why it has to implement serializable.
Why we have to implement equivalent hash code.
So this is my understanding why we need to override equivalent hash code.
So you from the previous video, you know that JPA internally maintain first level caching.
And also we can implement second level caching.
And in both it uses HashMap.
And generally we have key and value right in HashMap.
The key is generally the primary key.
So now here in this case the key is our composite key right.
And it's a separate class more than one field.
So how the equal and the hash code should work that you will guide right for your scenario okay.
Only if name is equal I can consider that yes two objects are equal.
But in some scenario, no, all the field exactly should match, then I would say it is equal.
It determines, like your business, uh, functionality.
Okay.
So that is one of the reason because internally we use uh HashMap for lot of features JPA like for first
level caching.
So it relies on this key which is nothing but a primary key.
So for that HashMap it required equals and hashCode.
Okay.
Another you can say that then why we need to implement serializable.
And why we when when we were using primary key like at the rate only entity.
And let's say at the rate ID primary key let's say long ID we were not implementing this class.
Uh, implement serializable right.
Why then for composite key I need to, uh, implement serializable.
That question can also come.
So the my understanding is unlike single primary key like a string, long composite key, or custom
classes.
Okay, you are not just putting at the rate ID over here now, like one field string or long or something.
In the composite key, we are creating a separate class okay.
That considered as a composite key.
Now we need to make sure that this class should be like in a serializable format.
Like in future if required, I should be able to serialize this class.
Okay, so JPA need to make sure that those classes should be properly serializable.
And if you implement that class class serializable, that will make sure that yes, in future let's
say that, uh, during distributed caching and over the network, we have to pass this object.
JPA should be able to serialize this class properly.
Class.
So this is the second approach using embeddable and embedded ID annotation the composite key.
So again I am creating a new class.
Public class first rule.
Second rule implement the serializable third rule.
Have one no arg constructor.
Fourth rule uh I have equals and hashCode defined.
Same everything.
Same.
But only thing is I have put at the rate embeddable here one annotation here and in the entity.
Now I don't need at the rate ID class something right.
No.
Now in the entity I can use at the rate embedded ID and provide the class this this class.
Okay.
So I can provide the reference of this class.
Now this will make sure that this would be added as a primary key composite key.
So now when the table get created for this entity right here address name phone all comes properly.
Address, name, phone all comes properly and even the address and name, address and name are indexed
both together.
Okay, so this is the second approach using at the rate embeddable and at the rate embedded ID for the
composite key how we can create it.
And we have one more like a very important part is at the rate generated value annotation.
So now we know how to define primary key.
At the rate id annotation.
But we can also define its generation strategy too.
By default primary key columns are not auto fill.
Remember that.
So let's say that I have put at the rate ID long ID.
Now whenever you are trying to do insert, you have to provide like what ID?
Because even though it's a primary key, right.
But it will not be like auto fill.
You have to provide like what ID unique value or some unique value.
You have to provide.
But with the help of add the generated value annotation, you can transfer this responsibility to hibernate
also.
Okay, so at the rate generated value only works with at the rate id annotation only for single primary
key, not for the composite one.
You remember like at the rate ID class, in that we can also use at the rate id id but those are different.
Those are not the primary key one.
Those are composite key ones.
So at the rate generated value works only with rate ID annotation for single primary key one.
So what are the different types we can give.
The first type is identity.
So like this we can give.
So here I have created at the rate entity class Last given a table name.
User underscore details.
I have this three field for the long.
I have created at the rate ID it's a primary key, but I have put an at.
The generated value strategy I have given is generation type dot identity.
So this means that auto increment it's an auto increment field.
So each insert will generate a new value.
So here if you see that first time I did an insert with this object, this is the response I got ID
is created one.
Even though I haven't passed anything ID one second time I hit it with some value.
I got id two even though I haven't passed ID anything here.
Okay, internally it auto increments ID two and if you check the db it will like this 1234.
Like it will goes on okay And this is very very specific to table.
Okay.
This is very important.
And many big industries also uses this generation type dot sequence.
Okay.
Big companies use it in a little bit different flavor I can tell you.
But first understand this one used to generate unique numbers.
Okay.
Speed up the efficiency.
When we catch sequence value more control than identity we'll understand these three points more better.
Let's first see this query.
Now let's say that if I am writing a DB query you can create a sequence like this.
Hey create sequence.
You can give some name whatever you want.
Increment by 25, start with 100.
Maximum value is 9999.
So you can create a sequence.
Let's say that uh, I have one sequence which is named user underscore seq.
This is the name start value is.
Let's say 100 increment.
I have tell is 25 and max value of tell is 9999.
So now when anybody asks this that hey give me the value.
Let's say next.
Well give me the next.
Well.
So it will start with 100 not with some one, two, three.
Whatever the start you have pointed.
Then again it says that hey give me next.
Well then increment by 25 125, one 5175 200.
Like this.
It will go till it reach max 9999.
After that we can tell what to do.
Okay?
Whether we want I think cycle or no cycle means after that don't again go to 100.
Okay.
Or after that stop it okay.
So we can provide this Also, it has feature that we can cache.
It can generate, hibernate can generate, let's say 50 values only in the one time itself.
It can ask the sequence that, hey, generate 50 values and give it to me, and hibernate can cache
it in its memory so that every time it need one unique value, it don't have to ask the sequence that
hey, give me, give me, give me the next value so you can save some DB hit.
You can simply directly ask, hey, give me 50 value, give me 100 values.
It will generate it and send it to you and hibernate can store it.
So it also has that capability.
So how to define it into the entity.
Let's see that.
How to do that I am creating a new entity class at the rate ID.
So I have this three field.
And for this id I want a sequence generator like how we do it.
So how to do that.
First let's create a sequence generator.
So at the rate sequence generator is the annotation which we have to use.
This is the name.
First field name is the unique name.
But for the JPA, which in the Java classes you can use different entity.
You can use okay.
The first is the name unique.
Any name you can provide and it can be used within the classes itself.
Then second field is sequence name.
This is the name which ultimately goes to the db in the DB what name you want for this sequence.
So that will go.
Or let's say that in DB you have already created the sequence yourself, and now you want it to attach
to this sequence generator.
Then you can provide the sequence name.
So from DB it will not create new.
It will use that db.
Name one if it already has.
If it don't have it will create new initial value from where it will start.
allocation size.
This is like hibernate is asking that, hey, uh, generate five values, five unique values, and give
it to me.
So now you can say that when you have writing a direct SQL query, you have more control over max value.
You have more control over like, uh, what is the increment by 2550 or on.
So here at the rate sequence generator there are not much field, only this, so 100.
After that it will increment by one 101 102 103.
Like this.
It will go okay.
But it provide us the capability that, uh, hibernate can tell in a single shot, generate this five
unique values, give it to me and it will cache it.
Okay.
So this is for sequence generator.
Now we put at the rate generated value.
Now the strategy which we are using is sequence And generator which we are using is this one.
This okay.
So now they both got linked with this.
So now when you start an application right.
So here.
First time I hit what ID I got 100 not one because I have told like what is the initial value.
Second time I hit I got 101.
Because here in the sequence generator we don't have a capability to tell increment.
But so it's always increment by one only.
And in db it will go like this.
Okay.
So these I have already explained you what is name sequence name initial value allocation size.
So here if you see allocation size I have given five right here in this one.
So now see this.
So I am hitting five time insert.
So first time it did insert 100.
Second time 101, 102, 103, 104.
Right.
So three, four, five insert happen.
No DB call has been made.
Okay.
After that.
When six time I am doing insert okay before that it make one.
Next value with that sequence db sequence name okay hibernate will fetch another five values okay.
So that's where it says that sequence helps in caching so that we can cache certain prefetch values
unique values.
And you can use it okay.
From the cache.
You don't have to every time go and check with the DB that hey give me one unique value Okay.
So that is also one of the advantage of the sequence.
So here I can show you here in the this one.
So let's see that generated value sequence let's say.
So currently application is not running.
So I am creating a sequence generator name I am giving some unique unique um user details anything.
This is for entity.
But in the DB I want name like user underscore SKU.
I want this name in the db for this sequence okay.
And initial value I want it to start with 200 and allocation size I want three.
So in in one time it makes a db query three queries it will generate okay.
And this and this ID, I will link it with this generator equals to this name.
Okay so now they are linked.
Now I am starting my application.
So now my application got started.
Now let's see.
So here if you see the one sequence is created.
What is the sequence name.
User underscore SKU.
Right.
This is the name right.
User underscore SKU I have given this is the name db name initial value is 200 and increment by three.
So generally here this is wrong like incremented is one allocation size.
I have provided three here in hibernate.
Allocation size means in the three three chunk whenever any it it will make a query for the sequence.
It will get three IDs in return and store it.
Okay, now let's say that the first time I am making a post call, let's say a.
So when I'm hitting it, it started with ID 200.
Okay.
So if we see the lock.
So first time it make a query.
Hey give me the because the insert we are doing the insert for the first time right.
So it will make one db query to take out the sequence from the DB unique sequence and the allocation
size.
I have given three, so means three IDs it has got and stored it, so then it inserted it.
Then I hit another two times one two.
So now here if you see it does insert does insert.
But it did not make any query for the sequence to give any value because it already has.
Now the fourth time I do here, if you see It makes one query select next value from user underscore
sequence okay.
And then it does insert.
Now again another two times you won't see anything right.
So here if you see another two times you don't see anything.
And if you make now again you will see uh select query for the user sequence okay.
And.
You can ask me like hey what is the advantage of sequence over identity.
First thing I'll tell you that sequence is very important.
What many companies does is they have a separate very small microservice which expose some API and which
many microservices are using it to generate sequence, generate sequence, generate sequence.
So one advantage we already see that this sequence right.
It is not tied up with very specific to a table.
It is a total separate logic, and that's why it can be considered as a separate microservice.
And it takes a control.
And you can say that a centralized, we can have all the logic which takes care of all the unique value
key generation, and it helps or fulfill all the different microservices.
So we can have custom logic.
One advantage of sequence over identity is we can have custom logic sequence generation logic is independent
of table.
So multiple table can use it right.
So even if you have ten tables those can use it like so.
It can helps to generate a unique number for those ten.
It's not very specific tied up to a specific table in identity.
It is very tied up like auto increment of a table.
So where it tied up range of IDs can be cached.
So we can avoid hitting database each time a new ID is required and another is better.
Portability means identity is very DB specific.
Some DB autoincrement is different.
Maybe Oracle is different, MySQL is different.
Postgres is different.
How the auto autoincrement works.
And let's say that today you are in Oracle and you wanted to move to MySQL there.
Auto Autoincrement works totally different.
So portability brings an issue.
But if you are using sequence, since you are taking the responsibility, what should be the start?
How much should be increment?
What should be the end?
So portability is like easy, better portability.
You can move from different DB as the consistent behavior you can have into multiple DB's okay, because
you have more control.
So there is one more like generation type dot table.
I will not explain that because it hardly used in the industry.
So there is like how we are using here at the rate sequence generator, right?
Similarly there is something called at the rate table generator.
This annotation is used, but it's very less efficient.
Why?
Because here a new table is created just for let's say maintaining the sequence okay.
It has one column let's say sequence.
And it, it keep on adding.
You can say that let's say one column, one value, it keep on incrementing and it gives the value.
But a new table is created and it's very less efficient you know.
Right.
Why a separate table is created just for maintaining unique ID.
Each time ID is required, select and update query is executed.
First you make a Select query.
Hey, give me the value it will return.
Let's say this is the well and second time you update it, change from 1 to 2.
Now this should be the next value.
Now you know that when a table is involved, a complexity comes when the concurrency handling.
When multiple operation is happening in parallel, it required lock unlock feature also which can lead
to performance bottleneck.
Now let's say current value is for this table S is one.
Now to uh insert operation comes and they both want what should be the next value I can use for the
primary key.
Now the goes to this table.
And since this table we they have to put a lock right.
So one have to put a lock.
Consume it okay I will use one and increment it to two.
So that second one it can use two okay.
But remember that in sequence it's an atomic counter.
There is no table.
There is no table involved.
It's just a counter.
So it's much more efficient and faster okay.
And DB is only handling it that counter.
Okay.
So here now this logic comes to you in the table.
You as soon as table comes you have to maintain it.
But that DB internally handles sequence like whatever the counter it has atomic counter it will handle
like 1 to 2 like.
So even though concurrency happen, it makes sure that only one of them, uh, all of them get the unique
value.
Okay.
So that's why I in nine years I have never seen that at the table generator is used.
But I can tell you that this sequence is very, very used.
Okay.
So in next part I will cover all this relationship association 1 to 1, one to many.
And in then part seven last part I will cover the custom queries, criteria, queries, pagination and
sorting.
So only these two left and hopefully I will complete it as soon as possible.