Okay annotation used over another annotations, which is known as meta annotations.
Let's say first talk about at target.
So I told you that while we were doing this at the rate override, at the rate deprecated, I told you
write this at the rate deprecated can be used over constructor can be used over field.
Similarly override can be used only over method, not anywhere else.
Suppress warning can be used over field method.
Parameter constructor.
All these places.
So who defines this right?
Who makes sure that what these annotations can be used.
At what place?
That's what target annotation is right.
So now let's say check over override annotation.
Right.
So now till now we have seen that.
Okay.
How you can apply override annotation.
Right.
So now let's say we have a method right.
We have a method on on the method I can write override annotation.
Right.
Now let's see if we go.
If you go drill down this one.
If you go inside this override how override has been written.
This is how it is written, right?
So I have hidden the other annotation because I slowly want to go.
But focus on this at the right target.
Right.
And don't worry about this at the rate interface because this is how we create annotation and which
I will explain you when we are creating a custom annotation.
But notice on this part I have created an annotation override.
I have created an annotation override because Java has already defined it.
So let's say we have an annotation override.
So this is how actually you create an annotation at the rate interface.
Don't confuse it with the interface.
So at the rate interface is used together.
It means whatever the name you are using is this will be.
Now as an treated as annotation.
So I have created one annotation.
Let's say now I want to make sure that where I have to apply this annotation where.
So you have to use at the rate target over this one and tell that what is the element type.
Element type is method.
So means this override can be used over only method.
So similarly safe variable arguments if you see this annotation.
So I have used at the annotation I have used means Java has predefined it.
So.
But let's say for an example that at the rate interface has been there, so means this is how we are
creating the annotation safe variable arguments, but the notice point is.
See?
On this annotation we have put another annotation which is target annotation and tell that where it
can be used.
It can be used over constructor comma method.
So you can only use this argument or apply this annotation over constructors or over method only.
So you got it.
Like whenever we are saying that a particular annotation can be apply at either constructor or method,
or either only type, then I think you got it.
Like how write using this target and why we are calling it as a meta annotation and like annotation
over annotation.
See override is an annotation.
I have created an annotation override using this at the interface keyword.
I have created an annotation override.
Now I am using at the rate target this annotation over this.
Right.
So at where I am using over annotation.
So annotation over annotation.
So at what all the elements type possible.
So element type can be type.
So type is your over the class you can use interface.
You can use enum.
You can use field.
You know that field right.
When you create a class let's say this is your field a right the declaration of a variable method.
You already know that method parameter.
Inside a method you have parameter right?
Let's say string a.
So this is nothing but the parameter.
So there also you can use it constructor.
You can use it local variable.
You can use it inside a method you have local variable and so on the local variables.
Also you can use it Annotation type.
So now see this.
What is mean by annotation type.
So here for let's say save where our annotation.
What is the element type I am using constructor and method.
So constructor and method.
So means this annotation can be used over constructor and method.
But if you see that if you go inside at the rate target, because this annotation at the rate target
is used over another annotation.
So it should have annotation type.
Let's see this okay.
So let's say that I have gone over um let's say uh what's that save arguments.
So this is the annotation which Java has already created using at the rate interface.
Now here if you see what is the target, where it can be used constructor or method.
Now if you go inside this annotation how this annotation has been created.
So Java has created at the rate interface and created this target as an annotation.
But if you see its target safe argument, safe variable argument can be used over constructor method.
But this annotation target annotation can be used over annotation type.
That's what all metadata.
All meta annotations which we are saying that annotation over annotation.
So they might be having annotation as a type means you can apply this.
Whatever the annotations you are creating you can apply it over annotations also.
Right.
So if I say that element type dot annotation type means I can start even applying save variable over
another annotations also.
Right.
So I will gonna make safe variable save variable argument as a metadata.
Meta annotation.
Okay you got it.
Right.
So any annotation which you want to make, meta annotation means you want to apply this annotation over
an annotation.
Another annotation use annotation type.
Right.
And you can see that you can.
So I have created one annotation Java has created one annotation.
So you can applying this annotation above this right.
So you got it right.
What is the use of target.
Similarly you you can apply on the package and type parameter.
Right.
So you know that generic type this t.
So on this also you can apply the.
annotation if you have used that one type parameter.
And similarly there is something called type underscore use.
So you can also have element type dot type underscore use.
So if you are, if you have created any annotation and if you have defined like where it can be used
let's say type use.
So it is available only in Java eight feature.
And it allows you to use annotation at all the places where type can be declared.
Let's say you can define type like this list of string.
So wherever the type you can define, you can also put annotation before it also list.
You can put your annotation right and string.
So this is nothing but a type like so string integer what type it is.
So you can add annotation before it.
Also type use wherever the type is in use.
You can apply the annotation.
You can use the annotation.
Right.
So you got it.
What is the use of.
Add the right target.
Add the right target is used to tell where the annotation can be applied over a method, over a field,
over a parameter, etc., right?
Similarly, there is one more meta annotation which is at the rate retention, right?
So now first see is that it will at the rate retention tells that how the annotation will be stored
in Java.
So there are three type of retention policy.
One is source.
So source is that annotation will be discarded by the compiler itself.
And it will not be recorded in dot class files itself.
So you know that whatever the dot Java file you have written after that, after the compilation.
What class will be having what file dot class and then JVM runs this one.
So if you have annotation as dot source right then it will not come into dot class file.
Also after compilation it will not come into dot class.
Okay I'll tell you the example.
Also let's say override one.
Let's see this override one okay.
Uh yeah.
This is the override one.
So here if you see that what is the retention.
So what is the target where it can use apply over only methods.
So this override annotation you know that how this is an annotation at the rate interface.
So we have make this as an annotation.
Now retention is a meta annotation because I am using it over an annotation.
So what is the retention policy I'm using source.
So what does it mean that this source annotation.
So now let's say this is a class.
And inside this class I have this method.
And I have put this annotation.
This is my dot Java file.
Eagle dot Java.
Now when I do compile and I got dot class file eagle dot class here.
If you see that at the rate override is missing.
Right.
Because I have used retention policy as source means.
Till where this it will get stored.
Like I don't want to have this annotation in dot class itself.
So annotation will be discarded by the compiler itself after using it, and it will not be recorded
in the dot class file.
Similarly, retention policies dot class.
Dot class is like annotation will be recorded in dot class files but will be ignored by the JVM at runtime.
You can't.
So if you have a retention policy as class, you can't access it at runtime.
Right.
You can't use reflection because reflection happens at runtime.
So but in dot class file you would be able to see it.
It will be used.
It will be recorded into the dot class file, but it will be ignored by the JVM at runtime.
Similarly, retention policies runtime means it will be recorded in dot class file.
Plus it will be available during runtime.
Also using reflection you can do the reflection also.
Let's see an example.
So you know this safe variable argument annotation.
So this annotation is with preceded with at the rate interface.
So means this is an annotation which is predefined in Java.
Now just focus on this retention.
This one.
So what is the retention I have put runtime.
time.
So when I have put a runtime right.
And let's say this is the usage, I am using it.
I have created one class and on a particular method I am using this annotation.
Now if I do compilation of this because it's a runtime right?
This is runtime, so means it will record it in dot class file plus available at JVM also.
So check its dot class file here if you see that dot class files.
Also this annotation is recorded.
Okay.
Let me show you the an example of this one of runtime again.
But I am creating my own custom annotation now instead of using the I am now showing you you can write
your own custom annotation, but we will go in depth more.
But just have a look at it focusing on this one.
So now I am creating my custom annotation preceded with add the annotation.
So at the rate interface is something which will whatever the name you will give now, it will be treated
as an annotation.
Okay.
What is the retention I have put?
Retention I have put is runtime means I should be able to do the reflection.
Usage of reflection because it is available runtime JVM and what is the target I have put to my annotation
is type means.
I can apply this annotation over class.
Okay, so now let's say I have created one class simple class.
Test class.
I am using my annotation over top of it using at the rate right.
So this is the annotation name I have created.
I am using this annotation over the class right.
So now here see it is runtime.
So now I am.
So now let's say my code is running.
Uh so in the main.
So now if you know the reflection like I have already explained in the previous video, you need to
use dot get class.
So this is one of the way out of three right?
So for this test class I'm creating an object and taking out dot get class object and taking out the
annotation.
So this is a metadata.
Now I'm accessing all the metadata of this class and fetching okay.
Return the annotation type.
This does it has or not I'm just printing.
So if you don't know reflection, if you haven't seen the previous video, uh please have a look.
Otherwise it would be little bit confusing what I'm doing here.
Otherwise, if you have seen this, you should know that this is just one way of fetching the dot.
Get class and using the dot get you can access the metadata.
There could be many metadata.
So annotation is one of them.
So I'm doing get annotation.
So here if you see this is how you access the annotation.
So I am doing dot get class I get a class object for this one and doing get annotation.
Hey, does this class have this annotation?
I've given the name.
So what is the output?
Yes.
Something has come up.
This is the annotation it has.
So now here, if you see that when the code is running, when I run this code at runtime itself, it
is able to find this annotation.
But if I have not put retention runtime.
See?
Now I have missed this runtime annotation.
I applied the annotation at this class.
Now I am using running the same class.
So take this class, get its class object, read its metadata, get annotation.
This does it has this annotation or not?
Null.
Right.
Why?
Because I haven't put the retention of it.
This annotation is not available to at runtime when the program runs.
right?
So JVM don't know about it.
And also I don't have a retention policy like a class also, so it will not be into the dot class file
also of it.
So you don't.
So you got it right.
What is the usage of at the rate retention.
So you can use it over an another annotation.
That's why it is called meta annotation.
And if you go inside retention also what would be the target type over the annotation annotation type.
That's why we are able to use it over an annotation right.
So this is the retention type annotation.
Its target is annotation type.
We are using it over another annotation.
Okay.
So clear similarly is at the rate documented.
So this is one more meta annotation.
So you know that by default annotation are ignored when Java documentation is generated.
Okay.
Just have this example.
Let's say override okay.
So in the override one this is the override annotation.
So here if you see that at the rate documented is not present at the rate documented is not present
okay.
So now in this class I am on this method I have put override.
Now I am generating a Java doc for this.
I am generating the Java doc for this.
So generating a Java doc first I'll tell you it's just a tool to create a Java doc like this.
So let's say if you are using IntelliJ or eclipse.
So from the tools you can do generate Java docs right.
So it will generate a Java docs for you.
And you can share with anybody else that yes these are the it will kind of a documentation which you
can generate and share.
So now when I generated a Java doc because at override annotation this is an annotation doesn't have
at the rate documented.
So if you see that there is no whatever the method you have create public void fly.
Public void fly.
This one does.
It has an override flag.
Does it have at the override flag?
No, because annotations are ignored when Java documentation is generated.
But if you want if you want to create it, let's say in the safe variable arguments, this is present.
So when in the method I have used this and generated a Java doc of it here you can see that.
It is coming in the Java docs.
Okay, so at the rate documented, says that if you want your annotations to be shown into the Java
documentation, so also use it in Java documentation is nothing but it's there are tools which help
you to generate the Java docs.
IntelliJ eclipse has inbuilt.
So you can generate the Java document.
So it would be like this right.
It's like uh you can say that now you can share with anybody and they can understand your class better
okay.
What is the methods what they what is the modifier type.
And all these things okay.
Another is at the rate inherited.
So by default annotations applied on a parent class are not available to a child classes.
Right.
So just say this example.
So now for showing the example demo purpose I am creating my own annotation.
So I have created my own my custom annotation write, and to create an annotation you know that you
have to use at the right interface keyword.
So now I have created my own annotation and I have to use it over a particular class or interface.
So I have defined a target type where I can apply this.
Also I want that during runtime.
Also I should be able to access this.
So I have defined a retention policy also.
Now I want that okay.
My child class should also be able to access.
So I want to inherit this.
So on whatever class I will annotate it.
Its child class should be able to access it.
So let's say I have provide at the rate inherited annotation.
So now see this example.
I have created a parent class basic class, but put this annotation over the class.
So over the class I can use it because I have a target type as type.
Okay, now I have created a child class Us from this parent class, which extends the parent class.
But here, if you see that I haven't put the my custom annotation child class doesn't have it.
But if I access the annotations or access the metadata for it.
So new child class dot get class.
So first I get its class object getting the annotation for on this class.
Hey do you have this annotation present?
Get annotation this it return the annotation even though child doesn't have it.
Why?
Because this annotation, which I have created, it has at the rate inherited.
Similarly.
Now after that, just for testing purpose.
Whatever the same example, the annotation which I have created now I have removed this, now I have
removed this inherited now the same.
I have a parent class with annotation.
I have a child class, no annotation.
Now I run the same code new child class dot get class.
So I get a class object for this taking out its metadata.
Annotation information.
Get annotation.
Do you have this annotation null?
Why?
Because now by default this annotations are not inherited to a child class.
If you want you have to put inherited.
Okay.
Clear.
Now there is something called repeatable.
Repeatable okay.
Again very important one.
So check this one.
It allows to use the same annotation more than one at same place.
Just see this.
Is it possible like you are creating a class.
You want to mark it as deprecated.
Can you do two times?
Add the deprecated.
No.
Repetition is not allowed, right?
But there are certain cases where you want repetition.
I'll tell you one example, but this feature is available in Java eight.
Repeatable, right?
So now let's see this one example.
So I am creating my own annotation.
What is the name of the annotation I have used.
Category.
And I have defined it as an annotation as at the rate interface.
That's why category is now considered as annotation.
Okay.
Now just don't worry about this.
I will explain you while custom annotation declaration.
So now I have creation a one annotation.
Now here if you see where this I have, I can use this annotation over the class or interface or enum.
And it will be available during runtime also.
But I haven't used repeatable till yet.
So now let's say I am creating one class eagle.
I want to have this category.
That eagle category.
Is that it?
It is a bird.
It is a living thing.
Or it it would be a carnivorous also.
So in all these categories eagle generally present.
So I want to give a category to this class.
So now I am putting at the category because this is the annotation which I created.
And I have created one here.
Member annotation member providing a name as bird.
Let's say this is just a metadata information, right?
So during runtime I might be having uh, apart from this annotation, if I wanted to have add some more
information, I can add more variables like this.
Or you can say that members like this and provide the values.
So now let's say one category I want to give eagle as a bird, but I want to give another category as
an living thing also.
So can I use two at the rate category?
No, this is not allowed.
Two times repetition is not allowed.
But in Java eight you can using repetitive.
But how this.
So the same thing I am creating another category annotation.
I am creating an annotation with the name category.
This is my custom.
I am creating my own.
And I have annotated with at the rate repeatable right.
And this is known as container.
Okay I'll tell you how.
But with this repeatable now I am using it and providing its container class.
So container class also we have right.
So container class because let's say you are creating three times category category.
Category category.
So you are making kind of an array.
Array of category.
So we have to create a container right.
So now this category I am storing it into this container categories dot class.
So I have created an annotation categories.
And it is just a array of this one category values.
Okay.
So now here see it one more time.
What we have done here is so this two things is needed.
This is step one.
In the step one whatever the annotation you want to repeat you have to you have to use at the rate repeatable
annotation on top of it first.
And when you use a repeatable annotation you have to provide the container like who will contain this
like you are creating three times four times.
Right.
So it's kind of an array.
Internally it will store in a particular container.
So we have to define one container class.
So categories I have created.
So this is now step two where you are creating a container annotation.
So I am creating another annotation categories.
Right.
And what it has it has an array of an annotation array of this values okay.
Now on an Eagle method or an Eagle class I can use multiple categories.
Annotation at the category name equals to bird right.
So name equals to bird.
You want certain it's just considered it's kind of a similar to variable but generally it is known as
annotation member.
But it's very very so see in look alike It's look like a method, right?
We are using this, right?
But it's.
It is how we define a member.
Annotation member.
But it's very, very similar to a variable.
So for this annotation if you want certain information like a key this is key.
This is value kind of this.
So name equals to bird.
So you provide like this.
So it's a string you want to store right.
So string.
So string what is the key value.
You can say that name.
And you have to define like this.
So similarly category name I want to put is living thing.
Living thing it will put.
Another category I want to give is carnivorous.
It will put this.
So three it will now put into this container categories.
So categories have the list of this what you have three now created.
So for this categories what key is now here.
So here it would say that it will now holding a type of categories.
Right.
So it is an array of category.
And this value would be stored here.
This is the array array of this.
Okay.
Now here if you see that you can access also how you can access this.
On an Eagle class.
So new Eagle dot get class.
So new Eagle I got a class object for this one.
Get annotation by type.
I have what annotation I am trying to fetch category dot class it.
What it will return is it will return all the.
So there because it might be possible we have 3 or 4.
So it will return all.
So you have to catch it in array.
So you are fetching it for category class.
So you have to catch it in Category array because there can be more.
There can be repeatable.
Right.
And now you can iterate over each one, each category and print its name.
I am printing its name.
Bird living thing.
Carnivorous right.
So this is just a simple example how I am using it.
But you can add more validation on top of it okay.
If it has particular name, do something right.
But the main point is you understand this repeatable or not, right?
In Java eight only this annotation is available.
Without this, you can't repeat your annotation on a particular place, right?
If you have to repeat it, remember it's a two step.
One is whatever the annotation you want to repeat on top of it.
Use repeatable meta annotation, right?
And provide one container class.
Container class should have an array of this one.
Right.
And now you can use it like this.
This is not mandatory.
This is just for example I have put you don't have to define it if you don't want this like so.
It just like an example I wanted to put that you can use uh provide more elements also for more information.
But you can also have simple have a category only at the right category.
Then you don't need this name.
Right.
But this you needed it.
Why.
Because you are storing this right.
Array of this array of this.
Right.
So this is how repetition is happening.
So this is how.
So now last topic is user defined on custom annotation.
So till now you have seen that we are using what Java has given us.
And maybe in mid I have shown you with an example where we have created an annotation by ourself.
So we can create our own annotation using keyword at the rate interface.
Right.
Don't get confused with the normal interface.
So let's say creating an annotation with empty body.
So now here if you see that I am creating my custom annotation and I have preceded with at the rate
interface.
Right.
So now this I have created one simple annotation.
Right.
Now here, if you see that I am using it over a class.
But if you have defined it exactly restricted where to use it like over only a method.
Over only a field.
Then you have to add more information like target, right?
Currently this annotation will not be available during runtime.
So you have to provide a retention policy.
Currently, this annotation must not have any documentation.
If you generate you have to provide documented.
Okay.
So those you can add.
But what the purpose I wanted to show you how to create an annotation.
So you can create an annotation like this at the rate interface.
And you can use it right now you can add more and more, uh, meta annotation and start using it.
You might already know it.
How?
Right.
Creating an annotation with a method.
It's more like a field, right?
It's generally known as uh, annotation member also.
So here if you see that the example which I have given, let's say I'm creating an annotation, my custom
annotation proceeded with at the interface.
So this is now considered as an annotation.
I wanted to add certain more information which is like a annotation member Amber.
So it looked like a method.
So type data type the name of the field or name of the member.
And then this opening and closing parenthesis with an empty.
So no parameters.
You should add it here right.
No parameters it accepts.
Okay.
So this is how you add a member.
So no parameter no body.
You can't have like noun defined.
Start defining it.
No okay.
Return type is restricted to either primitive or string primitive.
And you know eight primitive types right.
So you can either use primitive class.
It's not like a class I have created a class bird.
And then you can see an object.
No you know right dot class one.
That class you can use okay a string enum or another annotation you can use.
So if you see the above example, we are already using another annotation already.
This is another annotation, right?
Or you can use array of this type.
Array of primitives or array of class.
Array of string.
Array of enum.
Array of annotation.
And in the table you are seeing we are using array of annotation.
Okay, so this is how you create and how you use it.
Let's say on this particular class I'm using it my annotation my at the rate my custom annotation.
Now I just want to add certain metadata.
That name is.
So it's like a key and value I'm putting testing.
Okay.
So you can have more field.
Also let's say int val.
So you can add another like comma int equals to two something or not.
Sorry.
Uh, well, what are the key?
Your name, Val, equals to two.
So you can add more metadata information to your class or methods and all.
Another is you can also add default value to this member.
So the same I have created one annotation proceeded with at the rate interface I want to create one
member uh with an uh type is string, and the key name I want to give is name, but I want to have a
default value is.
Hello.
Now here.
If you see that on this class I am putting at the annotation, but not giving the value for this annotation
member name equals to something.
SJ no, I am not giving anything.
Even I can do it.
Then what would be the value set for name is SJ.
But if I'm not giving it like this.
If I'm only keeping it like this.
What default value it will get set with.
Hello.
Right.
So even you can assign a default value to this field also or member annotation member.
Also like this.
Default what value.
Okay.
So I have covered everything in annotations which we generally use day to day.
And from the interview perspective also what all they can ask.
So this is very important.
Meta annotations.
This is you already know very simple day to day.
We have already used it.
Very simple custom annotation.
You gonna use it a lot in the real programming also in the company also.
Okay guys.
So this is all about it.
And sorry for little bit lengthy video I wanted to cover in one video.
If you have any doubt, any doubt, please feel free to ping me in the comment section.
I will reach out to you as soon as possible.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
Happy weekend.