Hey guys, welcome to Concept Encoding.
And let's start without wasting any time in our new Spring Boot video.
So till now in JPA, we have already seen that how we are creating our repository interface, right?
And generally how we are invoking it from the service class.
Right.
So this save find by id.
These methods are already present into the spring framework.
Right JPA framework.
And if you see our interface we haven't defined any method.
But these implementation is already present.
But there might be a requirement where we have to have write our own query, right.
Custom query.
Or you can say that these methods are not sufficient for you.
Okay.
So you have a different or more complex query than just say find by ID.
So what to do in that case.
So today we will go one by one all such methods.
The first is derived query.
So what does it do.
It will automatically generate queries from the method.
Okay.
So we just write method JPA, parse that method and create a query out of it.
Need to follow a specific naming conventions.
Why?
Because see from method a query is generated and JPA converts it, right?
So JPA follows a proper naming convention so that it can parse the method.
So derive query used for get remove operation but not for insert and update because for insert and update
already a method is present here.
Save.
You can use save to insert also to update.
Also we have already seen that in the past.
okay.
But derive query.
We can use it get remove operation and you will get to know soon.
Why only this.
So here if you see there is a class part three dot Java into an JPA framework.
If you search this class you will see a prefix or you rejects.
So this is a regex.
So this rejects.
So here if you see first is query pattern like this then is count pattern this.
Okay.
So all this get uh replaced here.
These are just a placeholder.
So ultimately this is gonna be your regex.
So here if you see that our method when we are saying that it has to follow a naming convention.
So this is it should follow this regex.
Then only your JPA would be able to convert from method to query.
So your method should start with either find or read.
Get.
Query.
Search.
Stream.
Count.
Exit.
Delete.
Remove.
Okay, so either one of them.
Method name should start with either one of these value.
Okay then the second part comes.
The second part says that uppercase letter like a b, c.
Anything you can use.
Like for example I have used let's say find find.
Let's say I am using find expense right.
Anything starting with uppercase letter okay.
So uppercase letter anything.
So here if you see uppercase letter then I have put dot star question mark zero or more characters.
So I have put expense right.
So zero or more characters I have put.
After that you have something called by okay.
So this is at the end of your method.
So find expense by now after this, what you have to give is the field name, the field name of your
entity.
Okay.
So it will automatically create a query out of it.
It can parse it.
So here if you see just see an example in this repository.
Now I am writing one method find.
Okay so this first one I am choosing here from the find then capital okay.
Then I'm uppercase letter I am using capital U, then SCR anything like I want to give anything.
So here it's like zero or more characters right.
So I'm just using find user details.
Then by find user details by now here if you see this thing, this thing ultimately after by Whatever
you will write, it will like bear claws.
Okay, so this should be your entity field name.
So this is my entity user details.
Inside that field name is name okay.
So it just follows like a CamelCase letter.
So uh, n is capital.
So name okay.
And here in the parameter we have like what the name it should come.
So it will automatically generate a query like this.
Select all the data from the user table.
User details table from this user details where username equals to this.
So this question mark will get replaced with this.
But now here if you see that we haven't wrote any Jpql or SQL query, we haven't written any query.
We just written method.
But JPA internally parse it into a query.
That's why this is known as derived query.
Okay.
From method query is generated.
Okay.
That is done by JPA not by us.
And this method should follow a naming convention like this.
So let's say different use cases so that you can understand more better about this derive query.
So now here see this method name which I have written here.
So find okay user details.
By now I am using name and phone.
So if you open that part three dot Java you will see all this parsing logic where like and or wherever
it is present there itself.
So now here after by you know that it would be a where clause where then we have a name.
So this is all the fields now.
Okay.
So where name equals to this and your and your phone equals to replace with this.
So that query would be generated so and okay.
Similarly or also we can use.
So now here you see what I am using by name and phone or user ID.
So the similarly it will get translated to query name and phone or user ID.
Okay.
Then we have something called comparison.
So the query can be so many things right.
So see if you open the part dot Java class there is an enum list.
So because in the query we can have between is not null is null less than less than equals to greater
than everything.
Right.
So that's where we have all this enum present which we can write into the method.
So if you want to use let's say between.
So either you can write between in the method or is between both are both will work.
Uh JPA would be able to catch both.
Okay.
So these are all the kind of different comparisons or uh, different enums which is also present.
So let's say that here I am using find user detail by name.
Okay I am putting is in okay.
After the field you can use anything.
It will just interpret like this from this name field okay.
Where name field.
What we wanted is is in okay.
So we are since we are using in.
That's why the parameter accept a list okay so username in and this whatever the list will go inside
this.
Okay.
Similarly you can use like also okay.
Like name like okay then whatever the name would be have let's say string name.
So the similarly query would be generated like this I hope this is clear.
Right.
So this is like JPA already has given us what else we can use in a method.
Since we generally do not aware of this, we find complicate to write a derived query.
Uh, but here JPA has given us everything like, uh, what should be the syntax we should follow?
And uh, like in query what all things we can use.
I am totally agree.
Also, you might be thinking like we it is difficult to write a complex queries.
Yes.
Derived query is generally for are not.
We can't write too complex queries right.
Join and all.
So it's just like.
If you don't have that much complex but little custom requirement.
But simpler queries.
Yeah we can go ahead with the derived query itself.
Okay.
So here I am using by name like and the name.
So now here if you see it got interpreted like this.
Similarly now see we are using delete method.
So now whenever we gonna use delete method.
So now we are updating the DB something.
So that's why we also have to use at the rate transactional on top of your method which you're gonna
write.
So delete I am using you know right.
We can start with delete right.
And uh by I want to delete by name.
And this is the name.
So here this query ultimately delete query would be generated like this.
Okay.
So it's going to delete by name.
So now let's say this you have let's say um name.
You want to delete a.
So if there are ten entries with the name A so that many times delete it will call.
Okay.
So all entries it will delete it.
Okay.
We can also look at the pagination and sorting and derived query which is also very important.
So JPA has two interfaces to support pagination and sorting.
One is Pageable.
This is one interface which through which we can do pagination.
Another is sort through which we can achieve sorting.
Okay so the Pageable Eligible interface.
Right through this, we can set two things page number and page size.
Okay.
You we all know pagination right.
So let's say you have ten records.
You have ten records.
Uh, in the page page number start from 00123.
Like this goes and let's say the page size you have given like in one page number of records should
be let's say five.
So in the page zero you have five records.
Page one you have five records.
So total ten records.
So two pages are there okay.
Similarly we can use like this.
So whatever the derived method you are writing okay.
So I am using find I think now you can interpret right.
What what the query gonna be created.
Find.
So means it's a Select query.
This is optional user details by name starting with starting with right.
So it's like something like this.
This is the name you are going to use.
So this is your user name.
And here you can provide your Pageable object parameter.
See there is no such sequence that Pageable should become at last it should come at mid or it should
come as this one.
Uh, generally it JPA pass the method so it knows that pageable parameter, so it will treat it like
this.
So generally as a convention, I would say that always try to uh put Pageable parameter at the last
itself.
Okay.
So that it's always like a convention, but there are no such harsh and fast rule that pageable should
be at the last itself.
It can be in the Mid also, so JPA can interpret it properly.
So now here, if you see that in this, uh pageable parameter in the method derived method itself,
we can write it now in the service class when we are calling this method name, we have to pass this
Pageable.
Right.
So now here, if you see that this is our interface Pageable.
Now I am creating page requests dot on page number.
I want zeroth page.
And in the what should be the page size five.
Okay, so that I wanted page zero.
And in the one page the five entries can be present so that I wanted and I passed this.
Okay.
So if you have you already know that if you have seven entries 1234567.
So 12345, this will go into page zero.
And in the page one, six and seven would be there only two okay.
Because there are only seven entries only.
If you need more info about pages, whether it's a first page, whether it's a last page or if there
are more page, then we can use page as a return type.
So now here, if you see currently okay, from this one I am returning the list of user detail itself.
Okay.
But if I need more detail I would use page object right in the return type.
Okay.
So now this page how we can use.
Now here I am getting this.
When I call in the service class I got this return type.
Now page this one.
From there I can get more details.
So first I need to get the content.
So from this page I do get content.
I will get this list.
Whatever the output I am getting from the DB, the same object I can use it like hey, what are the
total number of pages is?
This is my first page is this is the last page is last right?
So you will get more info from.
If you required then you can return type uses page.
So this is just an example.
I have total six entries in the DB starting with all a okay, because my method is a start with and
I am passing a.
So my query would be like something like this.
Okay, and here I am returning zero and page five.
So 12345 till here I would get it six.
And this I would get into the next page.
If I do one five then I would get into this last one okay.
Okay.
So there is also one more thing like pagination with sorting.
Also it's possible.
So when we are creating a Pageable object right page request dot of the page number the page size.
Then there is also an interface.
I told you, right.
Sort interface we have.
So we can do sort by we can give properties.
We can give more than one properties.
I will tell you uh, but let's say that currently I want to sort by only one field.
That is name.
This is an entity.
Whatever the Java entity object which we have, it's a it's field name.
It's field name, not DB column anything entity Java entity field name okay.
So sort dot by and we have the property where we will provide the list of fields.
Currently I am giving only one field that is name.
And I want to sort in descending order.
And similarly the page I am passing into my method.
Okay.
And now here, if you see that I am trying to find page zero and the page size is five.
So here I am getting into the descending order because I have given the order sorting by descending.
We can only use sorting also we don't.
If you don't want pagination and only want to use sorting, then you don't.
You just need this sort, right?
You don't just need, uh, page pageable.
So that also is possible.
So here in the same method, it can also accept this sort interface.
And in the service class you just provide sort by the same thing, sort by whatever the field you want
to sort in descending order and you will get the output.
The sort by accept multiple fields.
See that when multiple fields are provided sorting applied in order.
Okay.
Let's say that I provided by name, comma phone.
So what would happen is let's say I have two entries a a or three entries a, a, and its phone number
is one, phone number is two, phone number is three.
So now here if you see that first and I want it like descending order.
Now here if you see that name is all three same.
So what it will do is after that it use the second field phone.
So now phone it will use it.
And now it will store it in a descending order.
So, so a phone is in three.
Phone two, phone one.
Now this would be the sorting.
So you got it.
So first is sort by the first field.
And if there are duplicate then second field is used and so on.
You can give multiple field like this sort by you can comma separated multiple fields.
You can give.
So it will first try to sort with this.
If there are duplicates then it will use second fields to sort it and like so on.
This is just an example I have tried to explain.
But there might be a question that hey, what if we need different sorting order for different fields?
It's possible right?
Uh, for name I want ascending for phone, I want descending.
But with this one sort by.
Since all the fields are in one and we are just either ascending or descending, it's not possible.
So there is another way we can do it.
Like similar way.
Sort by.
Now for each field.
For each field we have to provide an order sort order ascending the field name sort order descending
and the phone okay.
And the same sort interface we will give here.
that.
So with this for each field we can have different kind of sorting either ascending and descending.
Now I have already told you that if the queries are little complex, then using derived method, derived
query, whatever you can say, it's little bit tough.
You have to think a lot that okay fine, then I have used by then name, then greater than then like
how you will do that sometime it become more greater.
Okay, so it can't be handled by a derived query.
Then what next?
Then here we have something called j p q Java Persistence Query language similar to SQL but works on
entity object SQL.
Works on database, database or table name column name.
But here it works on Jpql works on entity object.
So in Java you have a class right?
Let's say user.
So it works on this.
Maybe this is correspond to a table user.
But understand that JPL understand this.
So whatever the name of the class is that whatever the fields names is it work on that one instead of
direct database.
And because of that it's database independent.
So today you have let's say MySQL.
Tomorrow you want to change it and you want to use Postgres.
It doesn't matter.
JP is JP is using the class.
Okay.
What beneath database you are using doesn't care.
So that's why it is known as database independent.
You can change database you want.
Your queries will remain the same because it is dependent on your entity.
Okay.
So the same thing.
It's work with the entity name and field not with table names.
So understand this one simple query of the gpcl.
It will give you a better clarity.
So in the same repository interface class, like whatever the name you want to give.
Now this name is not should be like find by.
Don't get confused that find by should be there.
You can use anything.
Right now we have to provide our query Jpql query.
So we have to use annotation at the query.
And inside this we have to give the Jpql the query.
So it is very very similar to SQL only very sorry very very similar to SQL select.
Instead of stress you just provide the object.
Or you can say that alias of your entity user detail is my uh, class right?
Entity class user details.
So I have aliases.
You right.
So the same you I am using here.
So it is equivalent to stress.
If you want a specific field you do you dot let's say name comma.
You dot phone like this like an object from instead of table name your entity class entity name.
Okay.
This is an alias.
Where?
Now this is your field name.
You dot name okay.
It is your field name.
Entity field name not column name.
Dot name equals to.
So in this method like whatever the parameter you are getting, if you have a dynamic value you can
you have to map it.
Right.
So that's why I am using at the root param okay.
You can give this param some name.
You can give anything name and the same name.
You have to use it here okay.
So this name and this name should be matching, and then this parameter get ultimately replaced here.
Okay.
So you dot name equals to and whatever the parameter which we have to bind we have to use it like this.
So in the method at the root param user first name I have given the same I have used here and the parameter
name okay.
So it binds method parameter with the named parameter in the query.
So it will bind this user name okay this at the param and this one binds username with this one named
query parameter.
Also there is no restrict strict rule for the return type.
You can ask like hey, what should be the return type?
Can I have a list?
Can I have only one object that depends upon what query you are writing.
Let's say your query can accept or return only.
Uh, let's say that only one one row.
But, but ultimately.
And you have like written like this user detail find, uh, find name something and you have written
your query.
But now when this query ultimately runs, let's say if it return more than one row, but your return
type is only one object, then it will throw an exception.
So the return type you have to select yourself whether this query is going to return me a list, whether
this query is going to return me only one object.
So you have to use it appropriately.
Okay.
But let's say that if there are more than one rows, but in return type a single object, then there
is an exception.
So c j with the join.
How it works.
Very very simple.
Very very similar to SQL join itself.
So C 1 to 1 uh first annotation like how we can use it.
So you know that already we have seen the mapping 1 to 1 how we can create it.
So I have just user detail user address.
One user can have only one address.
So that's why I have put this mapping 1 to 1 mapping.
Now see how I am writing a join query with the jpql?
What are the method name you want to give?
You can give doesn't so don't get confused with the derived query.
You whatever you want, you can give it.
So here if you see I am not using by or anything.
So whatever you want to give so select ud, ud is or user details.
I have given an alias uh ud.
So all select all the fields of a user details from this user detail entity.
Now I want to join.
So now here if you see this user detail has a relationship with the user address.
So this field so uddi dot user address okay.
So now generally in SQL you have right.
Table one.
Table two on right table one dot certain column equals to table two dot certain column.
Generally we have in this SQL.
So table one we have already kind of an entity here join table two.
It's like in the entity we have like user detail dot address okay.
We don't have to provide Gql in this on Gql will automatically add it because it knows that entity how
the foreign key we have maintained in the entity.
Okay, so that's why there is no on here.
Okay.
And directly we ultimately adding where whatever we wanted.
So now here if you see when the query get translated.
So select all the fields of user details from table one.
User details join table to user underscore address.
Okay.
On automatically it JPA added because we are working with entity not directly table.
So here JPA knows that how these two tables are associated 1 to 1.
It knows the mapping which column and are in user detail and which column in user address.
So that's where it does automatically add a on for us.
And after that where clause is added.
Okay.
So you can also see one more thing.
Now you might have a requirement that, hey, I don't want to return all the fields of one entity.
I just want to return like some fields of user detail and some fields of user address.
Okay, then what should be the return type looks like for a method?
So this is the repository.
In this repository you have to create a method like this.
Okay now here if you see in the select query of the jpql, my return type is one field from user detail
name and another from address table.
I want to return only country okay.
Now let's say that if this query where name equals to user first name okay.
Where Uddi dot name equals to first name.
So we are binding like this.
We already seen that.
So this could return multiple rows, right?
Each row contains.
Name.
Comma.
Country.
Name.
Comma.
Country.
Name.
Comma.
Country.
So here if you see it's a list of object array.
List of.
List of object array.
Okay.
So now here if you see when I'm calling this method and passing that name whatever I am getting a list
of object array.
Now in the code you can parse it.
You can iterate over the list.
Now you know that okay the first field is string.
Parse it string.
Second field is also string.
Parse the string okay.
And you might have to now put into a custom DTO.
So I have create one DTO with like name and the country.
And you can simply return this by creating a list of the DTO and return it.
Okay, so that is one way, but you might be sometimes thinking that, hey, this object array doesn't
looks good, right?
Uh, can we have something better?
So here, if you see that from that object array, we are creating our user DTO.
Right.
We are filling this list of DTO we can directly do here itself.
Okay.
We can directly do here itself.
We don't have to return an object array.
We can even return the list of user DTO itself okay.
So see this one.
Now select okay.
What I am returning I am creating a new object new the complete path of your user DTO.
Okay.
And whatever the value which is coming from the query name and the address I am passing, it's like
a constructor.
It's just like you are creating a new object, right?
New user DTO.
And in the constructor you are passing the values.
It's just the same thing.
It's just we have to provide a complete path.
Okay.
And this value is coming from the tables like the entity columns whichever we wanted.
If you are returning four rows like from this query right.
For each query it will create a new object, new DTO, and whatever the values it is coming from your
query like this one object here, one object here.
And it will ultimately create a list of this one.
Okay.
Now this is very important.
Like there is one when we talk about one to many and many to many there is one issue comes is n plus
one problem.
It is very frequently asked in an interview questions also.
Okay I'll tell you it's not that hard.
But yeah there is something like this itself.
So see, the query wise, whether it's one to 1 or 1 to many, the query wise there is no change.
So now here, if you see that I'm creating one to many user detail can have multiple address.
One user can have many addresses.
So I just change one to 1 to 1 to many.
We already seen that.
How to do that.
It's very simple right.
And the queries also remains the same okay.
Select all the fields of a user detail.
I am putting a join.
The join is with user detail list Uddt user detail list right there.
There is no need required of on it already knows that where the name is this.
Okay so I'm trying I'm searching my I'm doing a search on the user detail where the name is, whatever
that's coming into this method.
And it will ultimately do a join at fetch all the list of user addresses also.
Okay.
Now here, if you see that it's.
This query can result into n plus one problem.
How the query wise it's exactly the same.
First see what happens.
If you remember, we learned something about eager initialization and lazy initialization.
Okay.
With now let's say that you have a parent and you have multiple child's.
Child one.
Child two.
Child three with lazy.
It first fetches the parent only.
And when we are trying to access its child, then only it will try to find all its child and in the
eager.
What we have seen till now is when you have a multiple childs and you are using eager, it will at the
first.
When you are trying to find a parent itself, it will automatically also load the child itself.
But remember one use case where eager does not work in this manner.
Let's say that you have a query.
So this is multiple parents.
This is multiple.
Each parent has multiple childs.
If your query is query is like is fetching one parent and multiple child.
Eager will work like this.
What we have seen.
Let's say it will fetch this and all its child also.
But if your query is like it can fetch multiple parent and also multiple child.
Okay, if your query such that it can fetch multiple parent, right?
And for each parent multiple child also, then your eager does not work like what we have seen.
Okay, so how it works is that let's say I'll tell you in a simple way you have two user two parent
parent one parent two okay.
And it has three child.
This also has three child.
And we have created a query that which is matching both the parents.
Okay.
So what how the query will run like this.
First query it will fetch all the parents.
Okay.
So here with this we will get parent one and parent two okay.
Now it will create two different query one for parent one to fetch its childs.
And another query is for parent two to fetch all its childs.
Okay.
So just now imagine instead of this two just imagine there are n.
And each parent have any number of child.
So if your query is like it can fetch n number of parents.
So one query it required, it will fetch n number of parent parent one parent two parent n okay.
One query is to fetch n number of parents, then n number of times it will run for each parent and it
will fetch all its child's parent, one child's parent, two childs like this parent n child's.
So one query plus n queries.
So total n plus one query.
It will hit to fetch all the data.
You got it.
Like the only the scenario when you have multiple your query can fetch multiple parent and each parent
have multiple child.
Then because of performance issue the JPA does like this.
Okay, it eagerly doesn't work.
Like okay for each parent, it automatically goes and fetch all the child in the start itself.
No?
Okay, first it will only fetch all the parents.
And then let's say that you are doing get child for each parent.
It will create.
It will hit the N number of queries to for each parent, it will get the child.
So this does the same thing I have explained here.
Now say I have one user can have many address and our query is such that it can fetch more than one
user.
More than one user mean more than one parent it can fetch.
Then only this can problem can occur.
So say we have n users.
Then below query hit by JPA is one query to fetch all the users.
Okay.
So one query you will fetch user one, user two user n right.
And each user can have multiple child.
So for each user now it will hit and fetch its child's user two child.
So similarly n times it will fetch.
So total n query.
So total n plus one hit.
It will do.
So we need to find a way so that one query only hit instead of n plus one or any better performance
than this before going.
To the solution for this problem, one thing might be coming to a point is why not?
Eager initialization I have already explained you before that eager initialization only works when you
are like only one.
Your query is fetching only one parent and even though it have multiple child doesn't matter.
It will go.
Even if you are trying to fetch one parent, it will automatically go ahead and create a query such
that it will also fetch its child also.
And if you remember, we all did a testing by find by ID, so means only one parent we are only getting.
But as soon as you made a query such that multiple parents are possible, eager initialization won't
work because of performance issue.
Okay, so here you can see this.
An example I have very simple use case.
I have created two username both a a okay okay.
And they have this also.
User ID one also has certain child user ID two also has certain child.
I have kept only one one.
They can have multiple child itself.
Now see my query how it is that select all the rows from the user detail.
Join the user address list where name equals to user first name.
Okay, and in the what I have given in the query AA.
So now my query can user details.
You can see that multiple parent rows can come for each parent rows.
There can be multiple children's row.
So how this works is that it fetch me the data.
But how the queries it will hurt is the first query.
It didn't do eager initialization right.
So here it first fetches only the user detail all the user.
It fetch all the user detail itself say user ID, write all the user ID details like what we have commanded
over here.
Now for each user it is hitting.
So I have two users right.
So for this ID one it is fetching its child for ID user.
So this is for user one.
This is for user two.
It is again fetching its child.
So now here if you see address details.
Okay so now for each user it is making a Select query.
So two queries it is making.
So total one plus two total three queries okay.
So that's why it is known as one plus n issue.
So is like n number of parents I have.
So that many plus one to fetch all the parents.
So how to solve this n plus one problem?
One thing is.
So there are different ways we have seen that earlier.
Uh, we are using derived query.
We are using Jpql.
And also when we were not using both.
Right.
Our repository is empty.
It's empty.
We are using inbuilt.
So in all the scenarios we should be able to handle the n plus one problem.
One thing is using join fetch instead of simple join we can use join fetch.
So this fetch join fetch tell specifically to jpql that make only one query okay.
So here if you see that the it changes the query okay.
Even though I have written only user details here, select user details only, but the query it created
is that it has user details.
It also has the address also.
And it is joining properly.
It is fetching for all the users.
It is fetching.
It's all the child itself in the one query itself.
Okay, so it's like enforcing maybe here you are trying to fetch only users, right?
That's why.
That's why earlier it created only this query because I am trying to fetch only user details so it won't
fetch address details.
Right?
It's just trying to fetch me the user details.
And this select query is because in the return type, maybe JSON parser is trying to fetch the address
details.
So that's where it hit and fetch for each user.
But when you use join fetch in the pre hand itself it says that okay, even though we have provided
user detail, hey, fetch all the respective child details also before hand itself.
so only one query it hit.
The second solution is that using at the rate batch size right.
And we can provide the size.
So here okay let's say that we are not using anything derived or jpql okay.
We are using normal like earlier how we used to see we have provided a relationship, but we can provide
here at the rate batch size size equals to ten.
So here what it will do is that yes.
First, even though I am using eager okay.
And I am trying to hit a query where hey find all find all user give me find all the user let's say.
So what it will do is that even though I have made it eager, I can have multiple users, right?
So it first always go with the okay, get me all the users itself okay.
Once it get me all the users.
Okay.
Now here it will make the child query.
But now here in this case it will use the batch okay.
So it will reduce.
It will reduce the select queries and it won't make like n plus one.
But it will or it won't be like only one.
It won't reduce it from n plus 1 to 1.
But you can say that it will reduce it from this n plus one itself, right?
Because now here, if you see that we are fetching in bulk in the batch, fetch all the user details
in batch instead of one one, one user for each user.
One fetch Child user to fetch child.
Now here, if you see that we are, let's say for ten users we are fetching in a single shot.
So maybe we are reducing some queries hit okay.
So that is one way of doing it.
Another is using at the rate entity graph.
This is generally helpful in the derived method.
In the derive method, actually, we are not writing the query where we can put join fetch right?
So in derive method, generally we can use this at the entity graph.
And here in the attribute we can provide the child table for which we have to fetch all the details
whenever we are trying to load the parent.
As simple as it is okay, so means whenever I am fetching user detail hey in a single shot, also fetch
all the users also.
Okay.
Even though you have.
Even though my query is like fetching three users at a time, fetch its children also in the single
shot.
Okay.
So everything depends upon query how we are writing the query.
So JPA does internally some optimization, right?
So don't get confused in this right.
When your query is fetching only one user okay.
And it has multiple child, why it is creating a query with the join properly and fetching user plus
its child.
But as soon as your query is like multiple child's which can have multiple children, why it is returning
only this user's detail?
Why not child JPA has certain this optimization.
Try that uh, because we know that only three it will return.
JP doesn't know that.
So for optimization purpose it By default it says that okay, I will only fetch user if you require
me to fetch child also do that okay then only then it goes ahead for each user.
It will try to fetch the children details itself on demand basis.
Okay.
But if you enforce it like entity graph or through batch size or through this join fetch, you are enforcing
hibernate.
Or you can say that JPA that hey, go ahead, don't try to optimize it no matter how many users is also
fetches children also.
Okay.
So how to join many many tables.
So let's say table A has relationship with table B.
Table B has relationship with table C.
Doesn't matter with Jpql like how you are how we are writing an SQL, right?
The same thing.
Jpql exactly same.
Let's say that uh, from this is your table a join a dot B list.
So this is your table B join B dot.
This is your table C.
So like this you can increase on join and you don't need on clause.
That's all.
And whatever the Where clause you want you can use it as simple as it is.
Then there is something called at the rate modifying annotation.
This is very interesting.
The Jpql.
Whenever you are writing any query, the by default assumption is that you are going to write a Select
query.
Okay, so now let's say that I have written one delete or insert or update query inside at the rate
query.
I have tried to insert delete something.
Now if I run this, it will throw me an error that hey, expecting a Select query by default JKL expecting
a Select query only.
So we have to use this annotation at the rate modifying above at the rate query.
What your query here.
And we are telling the JPA that hey, expect either delete or update or insert query which is modifying
the database.
Okay, so this annotation is used to tell JPA that accept either delete, insert or update query.
So we are trying to update the DB.
So definitely with this three we have to use the at the rate transactional also.
Okay so like this the same query we can write it.
But since now it is delete we have to use at the rate modifying and at the rate transactional also.
Now there is one very interesting question also comes on top of it the usage of flush and clear.
Like now we are using we are updating the DB with the JP QL.
Okay, so we have data in persistent context also.
So how it impacts I will tell you.
So first understand the difference between flush and clear.
So you have let's say persistence context.
You already know that persistence context.
It's like a first level caching.
And then you have DB let's say db you have entity table A.
And here also persistence context.
You have entity table A okay.
Here you have some value one.
Here it has value two.
Let's say because we are working on it, we might be updating it.
So when you do flush so flush means push the changes of persistence context.
Let's like a committing change it to two.
It's like committing but it do not delete the persistence context data When you do clear persistence
context clear.
So it will remove it.
Like remove this state of this a it is now not managing it.
Okay.
Why I am telling you this.
Okay.
So here consider this use case now.
So I am just saying that I am using at the rate modifying and I am using at the rate query.
I am trying to delete some data from the DB and at the rate transaction I am using at the service layer.
And what I am doing is first let's say uh, you have a table user, your user ID, let's say one.
So first I am doing find by user ID okay.
Find.
And you know that when whenever I will do a find it will put into persistence context.
Now persistence context has ID one also.
Now.
Second, I am doing delete by username.
So I'm calling this in the same.
So it is in the same sequence happening right.
So I'm deleting the DB now.
So this data is deleted.
But now data is present into persistence context.
Now I am doing find by id.
Will I get the data output present.
Is it present true.
It's present because now when you are trying to do find it will not hit the DB, it will return from
here itself.
Persistence, context and data is present here.
So if your use case is that whenever I am updating the DB, my persistence context also get updated
properly.
So in the modifying we have to make flush automatically equals to true clear automatically equals to
true.
Flush means whatever the data is present into the persistence context, update it and then clear it
also okay.
So now if you do that what we are getting first we have let's say here db id one.
Here we have a persistence context ID one let's say because we did a first find.
Then we did by delete we deleted it.
And then we are doing when we deleted it.
We also put modifying flush.
True we haven't modified anything.
So there is nothing need to update.
Clear automatically equals to true.
So it will remove the data from persistence context.
Now when you're trying to fetch from the that, it will try to not fetch from persistence.
It will try to hit from DB and does value present now no false okay, so if the question arises right
when you are using at the rate modifying with jpql how you are, uh.
managing the data in the persistence context.
We can say that by clear automatically and flush automatically setting it to true.
And also pagination and sorting in jql is exactly similar to what we have seen in the derived query.
So whatever the method you are writing, where you are putting out that query in the same method, like
you just put at the right pageable and also sort if you want.
And the same in the service, you can pass it like in the derive.
We are passing it so no change in that it will work as it is.
So pagination and sorting is exactly the same.
Now there is one more concept called at the rate named query annotation.
So as the name says that we can name our query so that we can reuse it.
Let's say that if you have any use case where a same query is used at multiple places in your code.
So instead of duplicating it, we can write the query into one place using at the rate name query.
We can give it a name, and in our code base we can use that name directly.
So generally whatever the entity class which we have in that we write this at the rate name query,
whatever the query which you have to write, write it here.
Again it's a jpql for now.
And you can give it a name like this.
Find by username.
You can give any name.
Okay.
So on top of entity you have to use it like this given name and the query whichever you want to write.
Now in the repository or anywhere a different repository of user.
Okay.
Whatever the method you have at the top you have to write that query, right.
Now you don't have to write the query.
You can just use name find by username.
So it will automatically use this query itself.
Right.
And the same name you can use at multiple places in your code base so that you don't have to duplicate
your query.
And in future, if any, change in the query you have to make, you have to make only one place.
Okay.
So that's I hope that's the purpose of it's clear.
So in next video I will tell you about criteria API specification API and native query.
Okay.
And some other topics.
But yeah, that's pretty much uh, sorry because JPA is going uh, so many parts.
There are so many content, uh, or so many topics in JPA.
I don't want to skip any part, so please bear with me.
And I hopefully in the next part nine itself, I will complete it.
Okay guys, see you soon.
Bye.