# CAP Theorem (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed

Hello guys.
Welcome to Concept Coding.
So today is our second video on high level design where you will see cap theorem with very easy examples.
In an interview you might be directly asked to define cap theorem and explain it.
If not, when you design a system, especially a high level design, you need to think about this first,
because your entire design changes, you have to make some trade offs.
And if we don't consider those trade offs early on, it becomes very difficult to change the system
design after it's fully developed.
That's why it's important and comes in the very starting phase.
So now I'll tell you what Cap theorem is in very simple terms and with examples.
Cap system defines desirable properties.
So these are desirable properties.
Of a distributed system.
With replicated data.
Remember this line?
All right, so what are these desirable properties?
Cap R.
Stands for availability and P stands for partition tolerance.
So these three are the desirable properties of a distributed system.
Distributed system means here I have also these are all nodes.
Okay.
Assume these are db nodes.
DB node b I also have this db node db node c okay.
Now this is how it is.
If let's assume an application.
So it's a distributed system where the application can query be and can also query C and assume that
B's server is in India and this is in the US.
So my DB is spread across different continents, but they are synchronizing with replicated data stores.
Okay.
The data in B is the same as the data in C.
So it's a distributed system with replicated data.
Okay.
With replicated data.
Meaning the data in B is what I'm replicating in C.
So assume this is a very short term example of a distributed system.
Let's take this example.
So what did we say.
Desirable properties of a distributed system with replicated data.
These are the three desirable properties.
But the good part is or you can say the unique part is that all three cannot be used together.
Okay.
So assume this is my consistency.
This is my availability and this is my partition tolerance.
So either I can use Sia.
Or I can use CP or I can use AP availability and partition.
But I cannot use this.
This area is not usable.
All cap cannot be used together, meaning all three properties cannot be used together in a distributed
system where we have replicated data.
Why?
Let's see this with an example of why this is very important and understanding partition tolerance is
very important.
There is a lot of confusion in partition tolerance.
So let's see this with a simple example.
So first what do you understand by consistency.
When I say consistency Consistency means if you assume that currently node B has data, node B has assume.
Currently the data is a equals four, and A wrote that write a equals five.
So B changed itself to five.
Successful right happened.
So whenever a successful write happens we will replicate this data to C.
So what it had.
As four it will also change itself to five C will also.
So what consistency says is that even if A wrote here on B.
But when it reads from here it should still get five.
So consistency means getting consistent data okay, so after a successful write in any node, if it
reads from any other node, it should get the same data.
That is what consistency is.
What do you mean by availability?
Availability means that every request receives a response whether it is successful or not.
It ensures that the system is always operational.
What does availability say?
Let's assume I have two DB nodes B and C.
So availability says that all nodes meaning b c both nodes should at least respond.
It's not necessary, but they should respond.
So all nodes should respond.
Either with success or failure they should respond with something like I couldn't fetch the data or
the data was fetched.
At least both should respond.
So it means that as long as all DB nodes are responding, it means it's available.
What do you mean by partition tolerance?
Now let's understand partition tolerance, which is very, very important and where most confusion occurs.
Partition tolerance means that when two nodes.
B and C are replicating data between each other.
These are DB nodes.
This is also a DB node.
If because whenever an update operation comes here, anything comes.
They replicate to each other.
If.
Let's assume there's some breakage here in communication okay.
But my system, the overall system, let's assume it's hidden.
The user, the hidden, doesn't know whether the data is being replicated or not.
They only know how to query.
And they don't know if they're querying from C or from whom.
So if I say in user terms, the user doesn't know whether he's querying A or B, okay.
The user only knows that he's querying a system internally whether he's querying from B or C.
That's the problem of a distributed system.
What is it for one?
For the application is just about querying.
So let's assume what partition tolerance says is that if the communication between B and C breaks,
but F is still able to query.
So that is like partition tolerance okay.
Inside, if you see in a way a partition has occurred, B is separate, C is separate.
They can't communicate with each other, but F is still able to cover one is still querying and getting
requests from here.
And responses are also being received.
So it means it's partition tolerant.
It means the system is up, the system is up, the system hasn't gone down, but it's still able to
query.
A is still getting data, but how it's being fulfilled inside.
We'll see.
But that partition tolerance is if there's a partition breakage here in my communication.
But the system is up a is still able to query.
So now let's see the first thing.
Why can't we use all three together.
Why we cannot use all three together.
Okay.
So now let's see here.
Let's understand it this way.
What are the possibilities?
Consistency.
Availability.
Consistency partition and availability partition.
These three are possible.
What is not possible?
Cap.
Not possible.
All three can't be achieved together.
And let's see why.
So first let's see why CP can't be together.
So let's assume we take the same example.
B and C are db nodes where our data is replicated into each other.
Okay, now let's assume first What did I say?
I'm taking cap.
Whatever design I make for the system, I'm saying I need all three cap I need.
See?
Meaning consistency should be there.
Meaning the data here should be the same as the data there at any point of time.
If it's read anywhere after that, read from anywhere, write anywhere.
And if I read from anywhere, the same data should come.
Consistency is possible.
Now I need availability to that.
If I query B, it should respond.
If I query C, it should respond to okay, CS is possible.
Now I said my system should be partitioned all line meaning I said that my system here both have broken.
Even then all these properties should be maintained in all three and the system should be up, the system
should be up and it should be consistent.
Is it possible?
Let's see.
So now you will see that here.
My break has happened.
Partition has happened.
Okay, so now assume I said make a request to write six.
Here I changed and did it.
Now this request will learn that update tours.
But here there is a partition breakage okay.
So this request will go ahead.
Otherwise what happened.
It couldn't update to five.
Assume the breakage was for five minutes.
So for five minutes the system remained inconsistent.
Okay.
Updated itself to six, but we couldn't send the request to see to update itself.
Okay.
So what happened with this?
It became inconsistent for the five minutes this thing happened.
And if request reaches to node C then it will return stale data.
So we can't maintain consistency.
If I drop consistency, then what do I have?
AP means available and partition is there.
So this one happened that a, B, c.
That here a cost was five a cost was five.
When A wrote wrote here made a cost six.
And there was a partition here.
There was a partition here due to communication gap.
So a updated itself to six b the B node, the value of a in it became six.
But due to partition communication breakage c became inconsistent.
So what I'm saying here is I drop c here I dropped C but B is still available.
If a query is B, it will still respond.
Success or failure.
C will still respond success or failure.
So both are available.
So availability is maintained.
And partition tolerance means that even if the system is broken one can still query.
The system is not down but consistency is not maintained when querying A6 is coming, C when querying
C five is coming.
Consistency is not there, but AP is possible.
Okay, now let's try another use.
Try to find another use.
But now I'm saying that no I can't lose consistency.
Okay I can't lose consistency because this partition has happened here.
Let's see once again.
So here what I said is.
Here is one node D cost five.
It takes DS five and is writing DS six.
Okay, so I said that if when.
C and A I have taken consistency.
Availability is there.
Now I have a partition okay.
Partition happened for five minutes okay.
So I said no I need consistency I can't drop consistency.
So in partition tolerance if I need the same data, no matter how many times I read or write, I will
have to take one node down.
Okay.
So what I'm doing here is if the system still needs to be up okay.
So I'm taking this down.
Down the C I took C down okay.
So internally all requests are being fulfilled by B.
Okay.
So what I did here is achieved consistency.
So a what a did a wrote to be here updated six.
So here it became six.
But I have kept one down.
So here even when there is breakage, I don't have to update because it is down.
This request won't be fulfilled.
Okay, so any new read request will come to be.
So I will always have consistent data.
If six is written, six will be received.
Okay, so I achieved consistency, but to keep the system up I had to give up availability.
So CP is possible.
C p cp is possible.
I achieved CP but removed availability.
Why?
Because I needed the system up.
Because I needed CP.
The system needed to be up, but also needed to be consistent.
So to maintain consistency I had to take one note down.
So not all nodes are up.
Only one node is up.
Okay, now the third thing is here.
So now here you'll see a, b, c.
Now I'm saying that I need consistency and availability.
Okay.
So I if a partition happens here okay.
So it means.
They can't sync with each other.
But I need consistency and availability.
Meaning this should be up.
This should be up.
Consistency should be maintained here.
Case two is five here.
Case two is five.
So it means the partition p.
Is not partition tolerant.
If the partition happens my system can't stay up.
It's not partition tolerant.
If the partition happens, my system will go down.
Okay.
So I can achieve k.
But by removing partition, meaning the system can't stay up.
But I will achieve k.
But my partition tolerance is not their partition.
Tolerance means that now my request can't be fulfilled after partition.
My system is not tolerant.
According to that, I will have to stop the request.
One should not query one.
Neither can it query B nor C.
Assume it is allowed to query it wrote so I know it will write, but due to communication gap inconsistency
will happen.
So I shouldn't allow it to write.
Okay, so I will have to stop the system for a while until this partition tolerance is removed.
Okay, I hope you understood all these use cases.
Why Cap can't be possible together.
And while doing this cap, how we derived c cp AP okay.
And now in the real world if you see p is very much required.
So whatever system you design never trade off on partition tolerance, because nowadays distributed
architecture is in use and distributed systems are in use.
So it's a very common scenario that communication comes here and communication comes.
Communication breakage comes.
This doesn't mean we stop the system.
If communication breakage comes for ten minutes.
For ten minutes any system is down.
Any company is down.
That is not good.
So we have to keep the partition, but we have to choose one from C and a either CP or C okay.
Or then AP or then choose C from C a or choose a from c a.
So these are the kind of options in interviews.
When asked what would be your trade off on consistency availability partition okay, okay, we will
never trade off for partition.
We will trade off only between consistency and availability, remember.
