This site.
Welcome to concept and coding.
And in Java we have almost covered everything.
But there are certain features which has been added into the latest version of Java.
So from now on I will try to cover those features which has been introduced newly, plus also some features
which were there in the older version of Java which we have not covered.
So I would also like to cover those also.
So I want to start with this Lombok first.
Right.
Because this is very popular and highly used in the industry.
So what is Lombok.
It's a Java library which help to reduce the boiler code using annotations.
So during compilation it processes the annotation and inject code into our Java classes.
So if you talk with any of the engineer who is not working with Java, the first thing they will say
that, hey, in Java we have to write too much code, unnecessary code.
Right.
That is nothing but a boilerplate code.
Code?
Apart from business logic.
So you can say that this project is just an initiative to reduce those boiler code.
And this Lombok feature is compatible with Java starting from Java six and supports all later version.
And if you are working in the industry, you might see lot of features in your project.
So first thing first we have to add the library in our pom.xml.
So just pick the latest Lombok version and add it in your Pom.xml.
Now see before I go and tell you what is this just.
See this example where I am using one of the feature of Lombok.
But my IntelliJ is showing me the red line.
Right.
Means it's some kind of a compilation error.
It is showing.
But when I try to run it, it runs properly and printed.
Hello.
How come my IntelliJ is showing compilation error?
But it is working fine.
It's because Lombok will add the code during compile time.
I told you, right?
So Lombok is like we use certain Lombok features annotation and during compilation it adds some code.
So here what I am trying to do is that I am just using Val.
I am not using whether it's a string, whether it's an int or what.
So it determined from the value okay.
We will see that later.
So here I am using one of Lombok feature.
But my IntelliJ.
But your IDE doesn't know that how to treat this well.
So that's why it is show compilation error.
But when you run it during compilation since we are using we have added the Lombok dependency.
See it.
So if you see this dot class, file it properly.
Change well to string right.
It determined from the value.
But our ID doesn't know that.
So for that what we have to do is we have to end the add the Lombok plugin to our ID.
So if you open your IDE settings, click on the plugins.
You have to download this Lombok plugin.
And second thing is that in your build ID settings build execution deployment, there is something called
annotation processing.
You have to enable it.
So these two things, you have to enable it so that your IDE also kind of behave what Lombok is going
to do during the compile time.
Now here, if you see that after doing that my ID is not showing any error.
Okay.
Because now it is able to see what Lombok is going to do during compilation time.
How this is going to treat this well.
My ID is now also aware of that because of this two okay.
So you have to add the pom.xml.
Plus not mandatory but would be helpful for you during coding.
If you add this plugin your ID and enable the annotation processing.
So with that being said, we are good to understand all the Lombok features.
So there are so many features.
So I will cover ten frequently used Lombok features right?
If you know more there is a proper like list of features available you can go through all right over
the internet, but I will cover the top ten features used in the industry.
The first one is well and var.
So instead of actually writing the type, we can use this as the type of local variable declaration.
I have marked it at bold local variable only.
Okay, we will see that type will be informed from the initializer expression.
So what is the type.
So currently let's say we are using val some variable name.
And whatever the expression we will use initialization expression.
From that it will determine what should be the type of this one okay.
So that's what this line means.
And this this one local variable.
So it can be used only for local variables not for fields.
Not for parameters.
Right.
Only local variables which is inside a block.
Okay.
That's what I mentioned in the note.
Only works for local variable not for fields or parameter.
So what is the use of val L marks local variable immutable means it will make them final and where is
just similar, but it do not mark it as final.
That is the only difference.
So take this one example.
So I have created my method.
Okay.
In that I have created well a equals to ten.
Now I am trying to change the value of this a it says that cannot assign a value to final variable.
Why?
Because well makes local variable immutable okay.
Similarly you can use var but it not make it final.
So you would be able to change its value also okay.
And here if you see we don't have to worry about like shall I give it any string object whatever it
will determine from this initialization expression.
Okay.
So that was the first feature.
Second feature was at the rate not non-null.
So it generates a null check statement and throws null pointer exception if value is null, can be used
on a parameter of a method or constructor.
See this example.
So here I am creating one method and on the parameter I am putting at the rate non null.
Okay, and I have just put System.out.println.
This is my Java.
Now when I compile this my how my dot class looks like.
So here if you see that my dot class it added this code for me.
If name.
Because on this parameter I put non null right.
So it put a null check if name equals to equals to null, it throws a null pointer exception with a
message and then else it will put a System.out.println.
So even though my code looked like this after compilation, the Longbox add new code, right?
So that's what at the rate non null is used, it is.
It can be used on a parameter of a method or constructor only.
The third feature is getter and setters.
So if you see this right.
We always have most of our Pojo classes.
We need to write getters and setters of the fields.
So there are a better way that we can annotate any field with getter and setter annotation.
And let Lombok generate the default getter and setter method for us.
So this is very, very highly used in the industry.
You will see this a lot.
So here if you see I have created one Pojo class and these are the fields.
And on top of them I have put the annotation getter at the setter.
And here the same at the right getter at the right center.
Now, if you see the dot class file of this, the Lombok automatically generate for name, it will generate
the get name and the set name.
And for committee it will generate the is committee and the set.
Generally this is the Get and this is generally a set.
Right.
So by default generates getter and setter methods are public.
So here if you see all the getter and setter methods which Lombok generates are public okay.
But we can also control it.
How like this.
So let's say the getter method for name I want a getter method.
Yes.
But what is the access level I want private and the setter method.
What is the access level I want protected?
Like this.
You can make sure that what?
Whether you want to have a private method or protected method or public method.
Right.
So now here, if you see the getter for the name is private, the setter for the name is protected for
the committee member.
I haven't selected the access level, so by default is public.
Okay.
We can also use this annotation at class level two.
So instead of using at each field, we can use at the class level itself.
So here if you see this is a class I can use at the class level itself.
So getter annotation will be applied to all non-static fields right.
So here in this case I have three fields.
One is a static.
So getter field doesn't apply on the static field itself okay.
And the setter method annotation is applied to all non-static and non final fields okay.
so for static method also there would be no setter method and for final for final field.
Also there is no setter method.
It makes sense right?
For final fields means you can't change its value, so you don't need its setter method.
So that's what it says for setter method.
Even non-static setter method annotation is applied to all non-static and non-final fields only.
So here if you see it's dot class file you will see I have used or at the class level.
So for name I will get get name set name for committee members I will get.
It's kind of a is committee member which is a get and it's set and this is static.
So for static there is no getter and also for no setter okay.
And if there is final let's say some variable in some final you will only get its getter.
No setter right.
Because Saturn method is not applicable for final fields only getter you will get get method will get
generated.
While using annotation at class level, if you want to skip the default generation of any field, we
can do that by using access level dot none.
So generally what happens is when you use this annotation at class level, it's like this applied to
all the fields.
But you can also control very granular level.
Let's say that I have used at class level.
So means at this point of time what it knows that I have to generate the getter and setter for all the
fields.
But I can control, let's say, for this field name, I don't want setter method, so I can put at the
setter access level none.
I override it.
So for the name you will got the get, but there is no setter.
But for committee you get both get and set.
Okay, so you can use this to make sure that this either setter or getter method is not generated.
Okay.
The fourth feature is at the rate two string.
So it is used to generate the two string method.
So you might have used in your production code this method which is mostly used for logging right.
Debugging.
Many times we need to print what's there in the object, and it is generally mostly used for logging
and debugging purpose, right?
But you will see that this method in your code.
So now we can use this annotation Lombok feature to generate this method for us.
We don't have to write by ourself.
So if let's say that on this class It has this two fields.
Now if I use the annotation at the two string.
So this is the dot class file.
What it does is that it generates a two string method for me.
And what it returns the class name right after that bracket the field name the value comma separated
another field name and its value bracket close.
So this is the default way of returning the value of this method.
Okay.
But now let's say that hey I have multiple fields.
For some fields I don't want to insert or print into the logs.
Right.
So we can exclude specific fields also.
So now let's say at the rate two string.
But committee member you don't want to print into the logs.
So you can do at the rate two string dot exclude.
So that will not come.
Okay.
Similarly if you want to skip the field name like here it is printing the field name right.
This is the field name.
This is the field name you don't want because you know that the size of the locks increase, right?
Unnecessary.
So if you don't want the field name, then what you can do is like add the rate to string.
Include field names equals to false.
So now here if you see that only value is getting printed no field name okay.
There is another called explicitly selecting the fields.
So now let's say that I have put at the rate two string on the class.
But I have also made that only explicitly included equals to true means only those fields on which I
have put this at the rate two string dot include, those only will get added or used.
Okay, so even though I have used at the rate two string at the class level, I have made that only
explicitly included.
If it is true then only it would get should be used.
So we have to use this at the string dot include.
Okay then next feature we have is that no our constructor required args constructor all our constructor
from the name.
It's very clear no args constructor means generate no argument constructor.
All args constructor means generate constructor with all the fields required args constructor.
Generate constructor with only final and not fields.
Now at this point of time, you can.
Suddenly one question comes to your mind.
How come in the previously non null we mentioned that it is used only at the parameter and constructor,
right?
Not on the fields.
So I will show you how it's used on the fields, how it is used.
It is mostly used on constructor only.
Okay.
But now I will tell you.
So see this example.
So on this class I have used all this annotation.
Know our constructor.
All our constructor required a constructor.
So here if you see I have one name boolean committee member and one non null value.
So here it says that first it generated a no arg constructor.
This one.
Then it generated a all our constructor.
So all arg mean all three values name, committee member and age.
Now since age I have put non null right.
So here if you see generally now it used as a parameter of a constructor right.
So here it put a null check if A is equals to equal to null throw null pointer exception right.
Otherwise assign the value.
Initialize the value right.
And the third is required our constructor.
So here if you see required as constructor is only used for final and non null fields.
So only for this non null age.
This constructor is created with only age and since age is non null.
So it puts null check first and then initializes it.
Right.
Then next feature which Lombok provide is equals and hashCode annotation.
I have already explained this equals and hashCode method in this Java HashMap.
Internal working right.
What is the contract between equals and hashCode and how internally it works?
So generally we can use Lombok to create the equals method, a hashCode method for us.
Okay.
So by default it uses all non static and non transient fields.
So see this example on this class I have put this annotation at the equals and hashcode okay.
And I have also made sure that this committee member I don't want to include it into the equals and
hashcode method, I want to exclude it right.
So we can do that.
The same thing I showed you previously right.
We can include we can exclude individual values also.
So I want to exclude it.
So I added this.
Now if you see the dot class file generated it created my equals method for me with only this field
right.
Statics are skipped.
And even this one which I excluded that is also skipped, and it is also created a hashCode method for
me.
Okay.
And the code which it generates follow the contract which equals and hashCode method follows.
So we don't have to worry about that.
Okay.
Then there is another feature is called data.
So data is like you can say that again a shortcut for all this one.
So it's like plus plus plus plus plus data is equivalent of two string equivalent hashcode getter on
all fields setter on all non-final fields.
And it's a required args constructor.
So here if you see this is my code.
I have one field name string, one final and one at the rate non-null, and I have just put at the rate
data.
And when I compile it, see the amount of code it generated for me, right?
So what it does, it created one two string method for me.
So here if you see the two string method is created, the hashcode and equals method is created.
Okay.
Now here if you see the getter on all fields so means name age address.
So get name get age get address.
Okay.
The setter on non-final fields right.
So you will find a setter for name.
So here you will see setter for name and setter for address.
And since address is non-null it put a null check first and then initializes it.
But there is no setter method for the age okay.
And then required args constructor.
So required args constructor means constructor for either non-null and final.
So one constructor for non-null one address and the final variable, right?
So you can say that at the rate data is just a shortcut for all of this.
Right.
And see the lot of code it has generated for us.
Just our code is just this.
Similarly, we have add the rate value.
You can say that it's an immutable version of data.
So what it does is it made all fields private and final first immutable version.
So it make it all fields private and final.
It made class itself made final.
It can't be subclassed right.
The setters are not generated.
Why?
Because since all fields are made final for final no setter class.
So no setter methods are generated.
Two strings and equals and hashCode method generated like data getter on all fields will be generated.
Now at the rate required as constructor would be applied.
But since all fields are final.
Means all fields would be present into the constructor, which is equivalent to.
Now all last constructor you know write required as constructor only have two kind of.
Take care of final and final and non null.
Now since this value makes all fields private and final, so means all the fields would be there in
the constructor.
And since all the fields are there in the constructor, it is equivalent to all args constructor.
So here this is my code and I have put at the right value.
Now here if you see this is the dot class file.
It generated lot of code two string equals and hashcode method generated right.
And the getter method for all It generated the getter method for all.
And also here, if you see it created a constructor since it made all final private final, right.
So all final one would be their name age address which is now equivalent to all args constructor.
Okay one.
Another feature is builder annotation.
So in the LED playlist I have told about the builder pattern.
Right?
So builder pattern is used for two things.
One is that we can create object parts by parts.
Second helps to create object immutable.
Okay so I have already explained how builder design pattern works.
So here in Java let's say for this class you have to have a builder pattern.
All you have to do is this.
Use this annotation at the right builder.
If you see dot class, file it.
Create one builder class for you.
It creates one builder class for you.
And here if you see it has like you can set the name, you can set the age and you can create it in
parts by part.
The return value is still builder right?
And later on when you do build then only it creates a ultimate object.
So that's what we do in the builder pattern.
So now all this code is generated by this annotation itself.
So now here all we can do is like test Pojo dot builder right.
So here is the dot builder.
It will create a builder object.
This class which is newly created.
Now we can set part by part.
We can set age.
We can set name okay.
So age is still return.
The builder object name, still return the builder object and later on when all created when do call
build ultimately return the test Pojo object.
And now once you get the object, can you change it?
There is no setter value.
Okay, so here if you see in the test Pojo there is no setter methods.
So that's why I generally say that builder pattern also helps to achieve immutability.
We can easily achieve that.
So if you want to know more about in-depth the builder pattern you can check this video.
Otherwise, uh, if it is already clear then we can directly use this annotation and our work is done.
And the last feature which is highly used is the cleanup.
It ensures that the given resources automatically cleaned up before execution path exit the current
scope.
So here if you see this is my Java class I am using an file input stream.
Want to read some data from the file?
I am reading it right and here if you see I haven't closed it all, I used it on this input stream I
just put at the rate clean up.
Now if you see the dot class file it put try catch finally block for me and in the finally block it
is closing it.
So this is taking care of it.
So any resource which you want to make sure that after the current scope it should get closed, we can
use at the rate cleanup annotation.
So these are top ten features of the Lombok.
There are many which you can go through.
But if you are going through your live production ready code this ten, you will see very very frequently
used.
And if you have doubt with any of this feature, let me know.
We can discuss further into the comment section.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.