Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today we are going to cover this different type of locks which are available as part of multithreading.
Right.
So this is very very interesting topic.
Right.
And you will see so many concepts which is related to system design.
Or you can say that DB locking and all that will comes into this picture also.
But it's good we will discuss everything okay.
So till now you know that uh we have synchronized block.
Right.
We have synchronized block.
This is a critical section and it is used synchronize is used to put a lock.
What type of lock.
Monitor lock.
Right.
So that if multiple threads are coming, only one thread will go inside this critical lock.
Okay.
So I'm pretty much sure that you are very much clear about synchronize, monitor, log and everything
as we have already covered before.
So you know that in the synchronize when it put a monitor lock.
This lock is depend upon object right.
So consider this example right.
So this is synchronize.
So let's say this is the class shared resource I have put this method producer as a synchronized right.
And very simple class.
Just lock acquired by which thread.
Doing some work making it sleep for four seconds so that we can test our changes.
What we want you to test just to make sure that it is inside a critical section, at least for four
seconds.
And after that lock released as it is just about to go out of the method.
Now in the main method, if you see that I am creating one object.
So here I am creating object one.
Right.
And this object one is used by thread one to call the producer.
Right.
So this object one.
So this producer method which has synchronize.
So it's a method.
So we have put a synchronize on a method produce method.
So this object one is calling this produce method.
So what will happen is this synchronize will put a monitor lock on this.
It put a monitor lock on this object.
Right.
This class object which we have created right.
So it's a shared resource.
One object which we have created right.
Shared resource and given a name one.
Resource one.
Now here if you see another thread I have created another thread.
And it is also calling a producer method, but through different object I created a different object,
object two and calling the producer method.
Now this is a synchronized block.
It will put a monitor lock over here right.
So here if you see that both the thread will go inside the block lock acquired by thread zero lock acquired
by thread one.
After four seconds both releases it right.
So you know.
Right.
Why?
Because monitor lock is placed on an object.
So first time when producer is called by thread one, the monitor lock is placed on resource one object.
And when thread two invoked it invokes with different object resource two object right.
So monitor lock is placed on that.
So that's why both acquire the lock right.
So this is already we know.
But now let's say that you have a requirement that hey no matter same object, different object, or
no matter what all object is coming to this.
This only one thread should go inside this critical section.
Only one thread should go inside this.
No matter whether they are coming through one object or multiple objects.
I don't care if they are trying to access this particular piece of code.
Only one thread should be able to access it, right?
Definitely.
This is actually what in real time scenarios generally is.
You can have multiple threads, right?
Working on different objects, right?
They might have create different objects, new objects.
Right now when they are calling this critical section code, only one thread should get it.
Now.
What to do now?
Synchronize will not work because it put a monitor lock, and that monitor lock is on a particular object.
If all are all threads are using the same object, then synchronize can be used, but now not in this
scenario where we have a requirement that we can have different different objects, write different
different objects and only one thread should go inside.
Now what to do.
So that's where we have this customs locks.
You can say that.
So there are four types of customs locks.
So one is.
Remnant.
Second is read write.
Third is semaphore.
And fourth one is stamped.
So we will see all four write.
And uh, one thing is these locks do not depend on object like synchronized method.
Right.
So let's take an example of first reentrant lock.
So here I have created a class shared resource class.
Right.
But now here if you see that I am not putting synchronized over here because we are not using synchronized
anymore, we are trying to implement the locking through custom locks.
So first we are doing reentrant locks.
So I created an object reentrant lock.
So now this producer want to put a lock.
So here using this object lock object it put lock dot lock.
So this will acquire the lock.
So lock acquired by thread doing some work.
And once the work is done in the.
Finally we have to make that unlock.
So it will release the lock.
And we have to win finally that.
So that no matter if any issue happens, Exception happened.
This finally block should execute.
So log should be released ultimately.
Okay so here you see that in the reentrant log we have to create an object.
And then we can use this two method lock and unlock to acquire the lock and release the lock.
Now in this it doesn't depend upon an object.
So currently if in this example here, if you see that I created an object resource this this class
object.
Now both are invoking it.
Thread one, thread two.
Right.
Uh let's change it now.
Let's, uh, implement it and let's create a different object.
Let me not have a.
So here I will pass this reentrant lock in request.
Right.
So this lock and this unlock.
And in the main let's say this is resource one.
This is resource two, right.
But now they instead of on object relying on object they relying on lock actually.
So we will pass the same lock to this.
Resource one.
Resource two.
So now what I have done is the same.
I have a shared resource class the producer method without synchronize.
Right.
Uh, I am getting this lock object into the parameter.
So I don't care whether you have, uh, using the same object.
Different object.
Don't care.
I am only worried about this lock.
So I am putting a lock using this and unlocking in when my work is done.
Now, in the main, I am creating first object of this class, and third one is using the resource one
and passing this lock.
Similarly, I created a second object.
Now C new shared resource.
This is resource two.
Now thread two is calling with different object right.
But passing the same lock.
So synchronized doesn't work here because synchronize work on same object.
But here we are using a lock.
Return lock do not depend upon one object.
It just depend upon lock.
And we are passing the same lock.
So again we should be seeing that the locking should be working as expected.
Lock acquired by thread zero.
Now for second.
It is waiting by thread one will wait by the time one thread zero release the lock thread one acquired
and then it releases.
So here if you see that even though we are using now different objects, still we are able to put a
lock, right?
Why?
Because now we are not using synchronized monitor lock.
Now we are using a custom lock using our reentrant locks.
Right.
So here it depend upon this lock object.
Now no matter how different objects you create, if you are passing putting a lock, acquire a lock
and release the lock on the same lock object.
It will work.
So you got this reentrant lock.
So at any point of time you have a requirement that we can have different objects, right.
But still we have to go only one allow one thread only to go into the critical section.
Then instead of synchronize we have to use reentrant lock.
Okay.
The second is read write lock.
Before I tell you about read write lock.
First you need to understand about shared lock.
And.
Exclusive lock.
Okay.
So whenever we put a shared lock.
So this is let's say read write.
So read write.
So whenever we put a shared lock right.
So now let's say that this are for shared lock.
This is thread one.
Uh this is thread two.
Thread two.
Thread one.
So if thread one has put shared lock or instead of this read, I have to put like, uh.
Like this.
Weird lock.
S exclusive lock.
Shared lock.
Exclusive lock.
So this is for thread one.
This is for thread two.
So if thread one has put a shared lock, which is also known as read lock, thread two is also allowed
to put a shared lock.
So me because you are just reading right two threads thread one, thread two.
Both can put shared lock on a particular resource, but they can only read.
They can only read, they cannot even write it.
And if any thread has put a shared lock, let's say thread one has put a shared lock, then thread two
cannot put an exclusive lock.
This is not allowed.
So what does it mean that Let's say if any thread has put a shared lock on the resource, then no other
thread can acquire an exclusive law.
No other thread can acquire this exclusive lock because shared leg is already granted.
Exclusive lock can only be taken when there is no lock on this resource.
No lock means not even shared, right?
And when you get an exclusive lock, you can even change the values of the resource.
But with the shared lock you can only read, but with exclusive lock you can read also right?
So whenever you have whenever any particular thread has acquired a shared lock, has acquired a shared
lock, then any other thread can not take exclusive lock.
This is not allowed.
Now let's say any particular thread, let's say thread one has acquired an exclusive lock.
Does any other thread allowed even to take a shared lock?
Know if an exclusive lock thread one if an exclusive lock is taken by any thread.
No other thread can even acquire the shared lock also because you know right?
With exclusive lock they can even change the value.
So when exclusive lock is taken, you can't even read it.
And similarly, when you any thread which has taken an exclusive lock other exclusive lock can also
not be taken.
So to summarize, if one thread has taken a shared lock on a resource.
Another thread can also take shared lock and read the values.
They can also take shared lock and read the values.
Okay.
And anybody want an exclusive lock condition is no resource.
Should not have any lock.
And once an exclusive lock is taken, no other lock can be taken until it is released.
Okay, so now I think you know about shared and exclusive lock.
Now let's come to the read write lock.
So read lock is nothing but a.
Shared lock scenario.
Write lock is nothing but an.
Exclusive lock scenario.
So read lock.
Say that more than one thread can acquire the read lock.
Write log.
Only one thread can acquire the write lock.
So how to do it?
So this is just an example.
We will also see the coding.
So this is the same shared resource class I have taken write and passing and object through The parameter.
Right?
So no matter, we will, uh, have a same object for this or different object of this doesn't matter
because now we are working on loc object.
So now here, if you see that the producer is putting a read loc.
So how this would loc dot read loc put a lock dot loc right.
And in the finally block we are unlocking it like this loc dot read lock unlock.
So producer is putting a read lock, consumer is putting a write lock lock dot write lock and it is
unlocking it.
Now here I created an object of this shared resource, created an object of this read write lock.
So now this is how you create a read write lock object.
Read write lock equals to new.
Read write lock.
So this is an interface.
This class is an interface.
And this is its implementation.
This is its implementation.
Okay.
So I created a read write lock.
Read write lock object.
Now thread one is calling the producer method with this lock right.
So it is putting a shared lock.
Now thread two is also accessing the producer.
So will it be able to allow it.
Yes because thread one has put a shared lock.
Read lock right.
So another thread is also allowed to read.
So it will also put shared lock right.
So it will read.
So generally we are changing the value here right.
So generally it should not change the value.
It should only read the value.
Read value only right during shared lock.
We should not change anything.
We should only read it.
So now these two threads are sharing shared the lock like both has put the shared lock on this critical
block.
Now here, if you see that one more thread right, even though it is creating different object but using
the same lock object.
Now it is calling the consume method.
Consume is putting right block.
So already already we have shared lock by thread one shared lock by thread two on this resource.
Right on this lock object.
Will it be allowed an exclusive lock?
Right lock is nothing but an exclusive lock.
Thread three wanted exclusive lock.
It will not be granted unless these two threads will release their shared lock.
So now let's see that one.
This is the read write lock.
Okay, so here we should only read the values, not write it.
Okay.
So here in the producer we are putting a read lock.
This is a shared lock.
And then finally we are unlocking it.
And in the consume method we are putting our exclusive lock.
And in the finally block we are unlocking this.
And in the main thread one is calling the producer method with this read write lock object.
So it will put a shared lock and it will wait for eight second.
Mean time thread two will also come and try to put a shared lock on the producer.
It would be allowed so both the thread would be read lock acquired by both thread one.
Thread two would gonna happen.
Now thread three is trying to consume on the using the same lock, wanted an exclusive lock, but till
both the threads don't release it, it should not be able to go inside.
Now let's run it.
So here if you see that read lock acquired by thread zero.
Read lock acquired by thread one.
Both thread acquired the lock.
Now both thread release it.
After that only the write lock acquired there.
Okay, so you got it.
The read write lock concept.
Read lock is kind of a shared lock which multiple thread can acquire, and it can only be used for reading.
The value write lock is for exclusive.
Once taken, no other thread can take it right.
And to take the exclusive lock, there should not be any lock present on the resource.
When to use it.
When to use.
So generally read write lock is used when your read are very high compared to right request very low.
So if your application reads is very, very high, let's say user are doing 1000 time read only ten
times right?
Then you should put these kind of locks right.
Because if there are multiple threads are creating they can acquire read locks and they can work.
They don't have to wait.
Right.
So based upon the requirement of your application, if your read is very high compared to your write
read write lock could be a better solution.
Okay, I think uh, this read write lock should be cleared.
Then we have stamp lock.
This is something very unique.
Uh, I'll tell you, uh, about this one.
So Stan block provide both feature that it provide read read write log capability of what this used
to do plus also optimistic read also.
Anyone who don't know what is optimistic.
Let's let's see this.
Let's see.
So there are two types of logs.
Pessimistic and.
Optimistic.
So whatever the logs which till now we have seen synchronize re-entrant read read write write.
So these are all are kind of a pessimistic where we put a shared log exclusive log kind of this thing.
But in optimistic log there is no log.
lock acquired.
There is no lock acquired.
So that's why it's named optimistic.
Okay.
So now let's see that how optimistic works.
Consider this a DB row.
So let's say.
I have an id let's say uh 123.
Another ID is four, five six.
Let's say some row.
I have a name.
Let's say uh, let's say ram.
Then we have a type, let's say student.
This is also student.
And there is one more row which is something called version row version row version.
Whenever a new row is inserted into a DB, row version is always one.
And whenever any update happens, right?
It keeps on incrementing.
So now let's say that if thread one and thread two both want to acquire a row number 123, row id 123.
They both want to simultaneously want to access this same row.
This one in pessimistic.
They might have put a lock.
Anyone will put a lock.
And anyone only will get the access to this resource.
They can update when they release other will get but in optimistic no lock is acquired.
Then what will happen?
So see what will happen is let's say first let's say at time one it will read one, two, three it will
also read one, two, three.
Both will read this row.
And they will also share that okay.
What is the version at that time when I read.
So it will share some Data.
Let's say raw version was one.
When I read this data one two, three.
It also read that okay, raw version was one when I read this row.
Now at let's say time two they perform some operation like it updates its type to let's say teacher.
And again at this at time two it performs some operation and it's update its type two X student but
not yet updated to DB, but they have performed some operation at time two now two scenarios.
Scenario one.
Scenario two two.
Scenario that.
Let's say that first thread two is going to update the DB first.
At time three it is update db with ID 123.
With this type is X student.
So now it is.
What it will do is it will go ahead and update this 123 student to X student.
But before update it will check.
Hey is still the raw version is one because when I read it raw version was one.
Still, the raw version is one, so it will check.
Okay, raw version is one right?
So it will update.
Let's say update 123 Ro update this update table.
Let's say it puts set your type equals to X student.
This is the X student it want to put right.
Let's say that uh where ID equals to 123.
And also it said n row version should be one.
Because when I read it it was one so I should work on the same row version.
So yes, row version was one so it will change it to.
X student updated successful.
Now let's say at time T4 it is trying to update update 123 what it is trying to update type to teacher
now before updating it will run a query that update table set type equals to teacher where id equals
to one, two, three and row version equals to one.
Because it.
This also row version was one previously.
Now it will check.
Hey this has already been incremented by two two because thread two has done one update successful.
And with every update I told you that row version get incremented.
So now when thread one was trying to update it will check that.
Okay, I want to update to teacher but row version should be one.
But now row version is incremented to two So this will fail.
It will roll back.
Now it has to go again.
And read again.
Its row version it will save is two.
It will perform its operation and then will try to update.
And then we'll say that.
Okay.
Update to teacher.
If row version was two.
Yes row version is two.
It will update to teacher.
Okay so you got it right.
How optimistic locking is working.
Optimistic locking is working by whenever you read the data you save the lock.
State that okay what is the version number that is.
The same happened here in the stamped.
Also so stamped has two functionality.
One is read write lock functionality the same as this read write lock.
And another is optimistic locking functionality.
Let's say quickly see this read write lock functionality.
This is very very similar to this previous one.
So here in the shared resource, I created this stamp lock.
Right.
Either you can pass into the parameter, but I have created into this class itself.
Now I am putting a redraw lock dot read lock.
So you can use this syntax to create a read lock.
And in the finally you can unlock like this.
Now here if you see one difference that when you put a read, lock it, return one stamp and during
unlock you have to pass it.
Now you can ask, right?
Hey, why?
Why am I putting a read lock?
I get this stamp and why in unlocking I have to put it.
This is because I told you that stamp lock also support optimal locking, right?
And in the optimist locking, whenever you read it, you have to share the state some version.
What was the row version at the time when you read it?
So it puts certain you can say that stamp or state of a law kind of right.
It puts some state and unlocking it, it uses that.
Right.
So this is for read lock and unlock read.
It might not be useful, but during Optimist Lock this would be helpful.
How?
See this part.
Now here in the same shared resource to use an optimist lock I put lock dot try optimist read.
Now it will return the stamp the same as when you try to put a read lock.
Now when you have performed your operation like let's say you wanted to update anything and all.
Now before updating a value, you need to check that.
Okay.
Is there any write operation happen?
Like by the time I read And by the time I write between this time, any other thread has done some updation
or.
Right.
How do you validate?
So I know right?
So I told you how to validate how the optimistic locking works using a row version.
Using during update it checked that okay row version should be same.
Then only update should be performed in Java.
It has expose one method called.
Validate.
So lock dot validate stamp.
So whatever the stamp we got while putting a read lock or try optimistic read.
So we will validate that.
So this will tell us that okay is any write operation has happened or not.
By that time you were performing is any other thread has done the write operation or not.
So here if you see that this stamp is generally useful in validating it.
Optimistic locking right.
And for optimistic locking you don't need any unlock.
There is no unlock kind of thing because you haven't put any lock.
I hope you understand optimistic lock functionality.
There is no locking so we are only just try optimistic read.
So this is nothing.
This is not putting any lock.
This is just storing the raw version kind of thing that okay when I'm reading it what is the state.
And if in mid anybody has changed the state of the lock anybody has changed the state of the lock.
This validate method will become false.
Right.
So now let's see an example.
If you want to see an example of read write lock functionality of the stamp.
So we can also see that one.
So this is stamp lock.
So here if you see that uh this is I'm performing optimistic one.
So read write log.
I think it's very basic.
Right?
You put a read lock and unlock, you will put pass a stamp.
That's the only difference.
And you know that this stamp is useful for optimistic time.
But since both are supported into the stamp.
So this is generally we pass.
But generally in the read lock unlock read this stamp is not much useful.
It is useful during validate during optimistic read.
Now let's see the optimistic part.
So here in the producer method I am doing an optimistic read.
So here it stores the state of a lock okay.
Now it is taken the optimistic.
So there is nothing lock taken an optimistic read.
It does certain operation.
Let's say it wanted to update 10 to 11.
It tries to do it now it wait for six second Now it try to validate.
Hey, in the meantime, while I was doing some work.
Is anybody has changed this perform any write operation on this lock.
If no write if it is valid then your update is successful.
If it not, rollback your work again, change it back to ten.
And in the consumer part I am taking a write lock just to make sure that yes, somebody has taken a
write lock, do certain work and unlock it right.
So when you put a write lock, it will take a stamp.
When you unlock it, it will pass the stamp.
So when you are taking the stamp and passing it right, so it will change the status of this stamp of
this lock.
So that's why is able to validate.
So there is not nothing much this stamp in locking and unlocking it.
But it is helpful for optimistic.
So it just doing some incrementing the version of this locking internally which optimistic locking optimistic
read is using it to validate right okay.
So when you have write it.
So it might be increasing internally increasing the stamp value.
So it might be increasing the stamp value.
So stamp start adding something into this.
So it adding certain stamp value of this lock and optimistic reads and validate that okay.
Is there change it or not.
So now let's see that I've created an object of this.
I am running a thread one calling the producer consumer.
So when the producer will call, it will read an optimistic read, change it to 11, wait for six second
by the time it is waiting.
By the time it is waiting, what it will do.
Thread two is consuming it.
It will put a right lock, it will do something and it will unlock.
So unlock.
Increase the version.
So stamp is change.
Now after it wake up from six second thread one and it will check.
Okay.
Is it the stamp is still valid or not?
If it is valid, update the db or update the value.
If not, roll back to back.
So now let's see that.
Take an optimistic read write log acquired by thread one.
Right.
So it has acquired the write log performing some work right.
Log released.
Write log released.
Right.
And after six second it wake up and validate it.
Roll back.
Right.
So here.
But if you see that.
If the thread two.
If thread two hasn't started right.
So means there is no operation happen.
No right.
Operation happen.
Take an optimistic read.
Waited six second no right operation happen in mid.
So it should be successful.
This validate method is success.
So nothing but a internally validating the version right.
So if you understand this part right optimistic locking part how it maintains the row version and how
during multiple threads they are able to perform concurrency without even putting a lock with the help
of row version.
Then understanding this are stamp lock is very easy.
It's the same thing.
Okay, Do practice it.
So now let's see the semaphore lock.
I know that you might have read it in operating system semaphore.
It is exactly the same, but only difference is that.
So this is how we are creating a semaphore object.
Semaphore object name equals to new semaphore here.
If you see that permits I have put two.
What semaphore does is again it does the same thing.
It allow a particular thread to go inside a critical section.
But it has one additional factor that if you have permit okay I have passed two means two threads can
go inside, two threads can acquire the lock at the same time.
Right.
That's its feature.
So here in this shared resource I created a semaphore lock and provided in the constructor two means
two threads can acquire this lock.
So this lock dot acquire is used in the semaphore to acquire the lock.
Lock dot release is used to release the lock.
So now let's see its example.
Right.
Very easy.
So I have created a two.
Right.
And the same method producer putting a lock.
Sleeping it for four second.
Releasing the lock.
And finally now in the main thread here if you see that I have created thread one, thread two, thread
three, thread four four, thread all try to access producer.
So here semaphore object.
How many two threads can acquire the lock at the same time?
So let's see that.
Lock acquired by thread zero.
Thread one okay, but thread three.
Thread four waiting two threads release the lock, then next two threads acquired it.
So okay.
Lock released by thread one.
So another lock is acquired.
Lock Um, then what happen?
Is Locke released by thread zero.
So here, if you see that Locke acquired by thread zero Locke acquired by thread one.
So both the locks were acquired two threads goes inside the critical block Locke released by thread
one.
So one space is free.
Now it has been given to the thread three now another Locke acquired by thread two as the Locke has
been released by zero now thread three.
Thread two also releases it, so you got it right.
Semaphore has one additional functionality that what, uh, Reentrant and Synchronize was providing
right lock unlock it allow you that more than one thread can acquire a lock.
At the same time you can control the number.
So in which scenario this semaphore comes into the picture.
Let's say you have two printers.
Printer one, printer two.
You can allow two threads to come only at a time.
So you want to control how many thread can come into this block and perform the work?
Similarly, there is something like connection pool.
Connection pool.
So it has certain pool of connection and you want only okay I have five connections in a pool.
So you want at a time only maximum five threads to come in right.
More than five thread you can't allow because maximum you have is like five connection pools right.
So five connection is taken as soon as one is free.
One thread which goes out goes in right.
So always maximum five threads can come work simultaneously.
So in all those scenarios semaphore lock is helpful.
Now because of this locks re-entrant read write A stamped semaphore.
One thing you must have think about is inter-thread communication.
So earlier you know that when you put a synchronize it, put a monitor lock.
And we have something called wait and notify which also works on this monitor.
Lock and thread can communicate with each other.
We have seen producer consumer problem right.
So wait and notify threads can communicate with each other.
But they all work using synchronized monitor lock and all.
But now with this stamp reentrant read write lock that is we are not using monitor lock.
So wait and notify also cannot be used.
That's where condition comes into the picture right.
So what will happen is we have two different method here await and signal.
Await is equivalent to wait.
Signal is equivalent to notify.
Exactly the same.
No difference at all.
We have something called notify.
All right.
Here we have signal all which is equal to notify all.
So no difference at all.
Only thing is whenever you are using these type of lock, custom locks right.
Are not synchronized.
Not monitor lock then true for inter-thread communication.
Instead of wait notify you have to use condition and condition method provides this await and signal.
Let me show you how.
So here this is the condition.
So here I have put a reentrant lock right.
So I am putting a lock.
The same kind of a producer consumer problem only but very simple.
Not with Q but with a variable.
If it is already available then it has to wait.
Right.
It can't add more if it is already available.
So what I have done is I have created a condition on this lock.
Lock dot.
New condition.
It gives me a condition.
This is an interface, right?
And it give me an object of this new condition.
New condition object.
So it will give you a new condition object which has two method await and signal.
Right.
Await and signal.
So now let's say it taken a lock.
Now it is checking that okay.
Is it available?
Yes, it is already available.
Then it has to wait for it to consume.
So it instead of wait I use await condition dot await.
So this where it is waiting?
It is waiting on a lock.
Now you have to understand now that it is there.
There is no concept of waiting on lock, waiting on object.
Now everything is happening on a lock.
So I have created a lock object.
Put a condition on this lock.
Right.
Got a condition object.
Now if I have to make a thread.
Wait, I use this await.
So now what will happen is thread is waiting on this lock, right?
If it is not available means I have to produce it.
I produce it and I put a signal.
So it put a signal on this lock.
Whichever, whichever thread is waiting on this lock, it will signal them.
So signal is only one, right.
So only any arbitrary thread would be signal.
If you want to signal all the threads you can put signal all.
Similarly consumer which will do is it will put a lock.
If it is already consumed.
It has to wait so it can wait like this.
Using the condition dot await.
But if it is available, it will consume it and it will ask the producer to wake up so that they can
add value.
So it put a signal.
Exactly.
Same, right?
Right.
Wait.
Notify.
But instead we have to put a await and signal.
Right.
And if you run it.
Producer lock acquired by thread zero.
Lock released by thread zero.
Producer lock acquired by thread zero.
Now it is in waiting right now when producer is waiting, only consumer can.
Once it consume it, it has to awake it right?
So now consumer runs it acquired and while releasing it, it might have done the signaling before releasing
it, it might have done the signaling.
So once its signal is producer lock also runs now.
So you got it right.
How this generally works.
Producer consumer we have already seen only I wanted to tell you that wait notify will not work if you
are using this.
This locks instead of synchronize monitor lock.
Right.
So these are different type of locking which is good to know right.
Because uh when you go inside Java collections and all right, synchronize collections, uh, concurrency
collections, you will see this kind of locking which happens.
So it good that you should be aware that these kind of lock happen.
What is optimistic lock.
What is shared lock exclusive lock.
And uh this basic functionality.
So please practice with your hand.
You will get more better clarity.
And if you have any doubt let me know in the comment section.
We can discuss more.
Thank you Tim.
Bye.