Other side.
Welcome back to the channel.
And today in microservices topic we are going to do how to build a fault tolerant microservice right.
So let's start without wasting any time.
So when anybody says that what is fault tolerant microservice, we mean to say that a service which
continues to work even when downstream system fails.
Okay.
So instead of crashing or cascading failure, it should handle the failure gracefully.
So what?
In short, you have a system build up with multiple microservices, even if some of the microservices
are down and your microservices are depend on them, you should not crash.
You should handle the failure gracefully.
Okay, then we can say that it's a fault tolerant microservice.
Okay.
Why it is required.
You will get more clarity with this, uh, example like why it is required.
So see, as in microservices, different services communicate over the network.
We all know this.
And it's possible that one service unavailability could bring down the whole system.
See this example.
Consider that this system is not fault tolerant.
How a one service can bring down the whole system.
In a normal scenario, let's say there could be multiple microservices, which I'm calling as a client,
right?
So let's say some other client or microservices is calling order component order is calling product
products.
Give the response and order in return gives the response to the client.
This is a normal flow.
Now let's say a buggy code has been introduced in the product and the product service becomes too slow.
This product becomes too slow.
Each API is now taking let's say 60s, right?
60s is too much in distributed system, right?
Say product service become too slow and taking 60s to respond.
If proper fault tolerant is not applied, then a call from order service will hang for 60s.
Now the order service which is calling the product service right need has to wait for 60s.
What if there is a sudden burst of requests coming from client?
Then all the requests will wait for 60s, right?
Just see this example.
Now a sudden burst coming from a microservice to a order component order in return.
Calling the product and product is currently going too slow.
So all the threads are now waiting.
Okay, all the threads are now waiting.
Now what eventually will happen is service will run out of thread and start rejecting the request order.
You know that there is a concept of thread pool.
We have already covered that in depth.
So ultimately when all the threads are waiting, the thread will ultimately will get finished, all
threads will get finished, and there you will reach a point when you will start declining the request.
And this becomes a cascade failure to all your client and microservices also.
And also one more thing is even the product component will not get a normal situation because the.
You can say that the situation of a product service will keep on deteriorating because more and more
load is coming to the product.
So even though the issue is at product, the failure got cascaded to order and may be because of order
has stopped.
Even order can get slow, order component can get slow or if it's thread is all done, it will start
rejecting the request.
This failure can cascade to other components also.
So that is known as cascading failure.
And now you can see that how a one service can bring down the whole component whole system.
So that's why we need fault tolerant.
That's why we need to build a fault tolerant microservice.
So if you are building a order, it need to be fault tolerant that even if product goes down or product
goes slow, I should not like its failure, should not get cascaded to me and I should not get crashed
to.
Okay, so here comes our resilience for framework.
So resilience for J is a combination of mechanism like rate limiter, bulkhead time limiter, circuit
breaker and retry.
So these five are the combinations.
Or you can say that the mechanism which resilience for J provides which helps to develop a microservice
as fault tolerant.
And one more thing.
I would say that we will go one by one in a recommended logical ordering.
So you might say what is the ordering issue like.
We can we can apply anything in in whichever order.
But see this is the logical order rate limiter first, then bulkhead, then time limiter, then circuit
breaker and then retry.
Right.
Why?
Because there is a reason.
Like let's say that if you are applying right, uh, for example rate limiter should always be applied
before retry.
Now let's say you are applying first retry and then rate limiter.
This mechanism you are applying in your system like this.
So does that make sense to you.
Just think what if rate limiter is that it.
Whenever an access traffic comes right it blocks some of the traffic.
Now, if you do the retry mechanism first means you are unnecessarily wasting your computation in retrying
on those traffic that ultimately will get blocked by the rate limiter.
Okay, so there is no point of retrying those traffic which ultimately get blocked.
So that's where rate limiter should be first and retry should be second in this sense.
So that's why if when you are applying all the five mechanism in your system, logical ordering should
be present.
That's what there is no hard and fast rule.
But this is you can say that are de facto, which generally should be followed like this should be the
order.
Okay.
So let's start with our first mechanism which is rate limiter.
Very very important from interview perspective.
Even when you are building the services, also in the product based system like that's also is very
important.
So rate limiter is what it controls.
The number of requests allowed to a microservice in a given time window.
Let's say that in this time window a particular time window limited time window let's say five second
ten second, whatever, how much requests can go through.
So in short, it protect our system from sudden traffic spike like a DDoS attack.
Okay, so there are multiple mechanisms or algorithms in rate limiter before even we goes to the implementation,
let's quickly see what are all the algorithm.
So there are most commonly five algorithm fixed window counter sliding log sliding window counter which
again has two flavors token bucket and leaky bucket.
So quickly in five ten minutes we will try to go through each so that uh, when we see the implementation,
we will at least get to know what rate limiter actually does internally.
So fixed window counter.
Let's see the first fixed window counter.
It is very very simple.
It counts how many requests happens in fixed window.
If the count crossed the limit then reject the request.
For example, let's say this is the time period I am currently putting in two seconds.
Uh, actually, in coding it could be nanoseconds.
Okay, but for simplicity, for understanding purpose, let's consider that this is the time period
that every request can come at seconds 0123456.
Like this.
Now we have put a limit five that at in a particular fixed window.
If only five requests are allowed, if more than five comes rejected okay, so limit is five and window
fixed window size I have given 10s.
So now here if you see this is window one.
This is window one 0 to 10.
This is window 210 to 20.
Okay.
Similarly window three would be 20 to 30.
Like this.
Now in each window maximum count maximum request allowed is only five.
So now let's say one request is comes at one second, then here, then here, then here then here.
Total five requests.
So all five are allowed because limit is five for this window and currently it's within a limit.
Now here if you see in window 212345.
So these five are allowed because limit is five.
As soon as the sixth request comes.
So in this window 10 to 20 second only five requests.
But this six is not allowed.
It is crossing the limit.
So that's why it is rejected.
Okay if any more requests will come.
That is also rejected because in this fixed window already five request has come.
Now in the next window again new request can come till it's don't reach its limit.
Limit is five.
Very simple right?
But there is a disadvantage.
Disadvantage is that.
What if this is window one.
This is window two.
What if all the five requests comes at the last of this window one.
And all the requests in the next window comes at the start of its window?
Now here, if you see in one second ten request has come.
Okay.
So that is possible.
So if traffic comes at edge then there is a chance of sudden spike.
Okay.
So this is one of the disadvantage in uh you can say that fixed window counter because it's a window
fixed window and you are just counting.
Like, okay, this many requests are allowed.
Now the request can comes spread across the window or it can come like this.
But if it comes like this, then if you see in the one second ten requests, your system is able to
accept which it might not be able to handle it.
Okay.
Then there is something called sliding lock.
Also, again, very simple, but with a very familiar data structures which we use sliding window.
Right.
So it is very very similar to that one.
For each accepted request it is stored.
The exact timestamp for each request comes in it.
First check how many requests happen in x seconds window size.
So there is a window slide slider window.
You can say that we put that okay 10s 20s whatever.
So that would be its size.
Okay.
If number of requests reached the limit, it will reject the request.
We will see that with an example.
So here if you see window size I have put 10s.
So this is my the slider size.
So my slider size is ten second.
And in this slider size ten second maximum limit is five maximum five requests I should accept it.
Not more than that.
Now for each accepted request it store the exact timestamp.
Now let's say that first request is coming at this point.
So let's say time is started with ten 0000.
So this is ten 0002 two seconds.
First request is came windows slider window is still this only.
Okay then second request comes at this ten .00.05.
So it is logging the timestamp.
Third request comes at this 10.0007 accepted because limit is five and only three is there.
And then fourth request come at ten 00099.
Second okay.
All four are accepted.
Now let's say that the time reached till here.
Okay.
So our window size is ten.
So it has to slide.
So now window slides to 10s okay.
So now this is our current window.
Now current window is let's say we are assuming that time period is in seconds.
So it is moving second by second.
So earlier window was started from ten zero zero.
Now it's ten 000 1 to 11.
So this is my window size now.
So it will only consider requests within this window.
So in this window till now how many requests are there.
1234 till nine it cames right.
Now Let's say at 11, another request is coming.
Will it be able to accept it?
So currently in this window only four limit is five.
So yes, it will accept it.
Okay.
Now let's say that now window moves again.
Now let's say that when the time reached till here.
So window has to slide.
So window now slides to this ten 000022 1210 zero zero 12.
Now this is my window.
Now I will check if a request is coming.
New request is coming.
Does this window has how many requests?
12345.
Already five is there which is already reached our limit in the window.
Now you are trying to accept a new request which is in a window, so it will reject it.
Okay.
So very simple right?
It just slides and it just keep track of the accepted request timestamp.
Now here, if you see that one, you can say that one of the disadvantage of this also that one thing
is you already know that it has to manage the timestamp, okay.
Which is you require a memory for that.
Write more request means you have to store their timestamp.
Another problem is that now let's say that windows slides again window time reached till here.
Okay.
So window has to slide.
So it slide one second again.
So now our time is this 032 13.
Now here if you see that any timestamp of a request which we recorded which is now you can say that
out of the window it has to be clean up.
Right.
So that is your extra task which you have to do because you only need to consider the timestamp which
are present inside a window.
All the timestamp which are beyond the beyond or before the window.
It has to be cleaned up.
So that is disadvantage.
Extra overhead of cleanup and you need more memory to store the time frame.
Okay.
So very very sliding window kind of uh solution which is just like based on timestamp.
Now we have our third is sliding window counter.
Okay.
So it has two flavors.
Both flavors are simple.
So first flavor is sliding window counter with sub windows.
So understand that is that main window is divided into equal size sub windows.
Keep track of the number of requests in each sub window to decide if requests need to be rejected or
not.
It considers only the active sub windows.
Main window slides over time.
Don't worry about this now.
We will understand this.
Four lines with an example and it will get clearly.
So one thing is we have something called main window.
So let's say window size is 10s which ultimately gonna slide.
Okay so we have ten second window.
Then we have sub window of two seconds.
So this is our main window.
This yellow one yellow bucket is our main window of ten second okay.
Then we have sub windows of two two seconds.
So means this main window is divided into two two seconds.
Sub windows 0 to 2, 2 to 4, 4 to 6, 6 to 8 and 8 to 10.
These are sub windows okay.
And limit is five in a particular window in a particular window.
Max is five requests we can accept.
Okay, now what it will do.
Let's see that how it.
So till now it is clear.
Right.
One we have main window.
Another is the main window is subdivided into sub windows.
Now for any new request let's say multiple requests are coming.
So request comes at here.
Limit is five.
It is one.
Limit is five.
Only two limit is five.
Only three limit is five.
Only four.
So till now it accept.
Now let's say that a new request is coming at this nine second.
So it will sum up the requests in all active Subwindows.
All active Subwindows.
So here the ultimately window size is main window size is 10s.
So currently we are at here at this nine.
So it's some window is this one.
This is one sub window 8 to 10, so it has to count how many number of requests comes into this window
plus this window, because it has to sum up the sub windows of 10s because main window is 10s.
Okay.
So it has to sum this up.
So ultimately you can say that it all sub window task is to manage how many requests coming in their
window.
Sub window okay.
So ultimately all the sub windows which are present into the main window it will just sum it up okay.
So here at the ninth second.
So what are the sub windows.
This one 0 to 2 2 to 4, 4 to 6 6 to 8 and 8 to 10.
So total zero to 10s.
So this is your main window inside this main window these are the five sub windows okay.
Each subwindow is maintaining how many requests comes in their window.
Subwindows.
Okay, so we just sum it up in 0 to 2 second Subwindow.
Only one request comes, so it has maintaining that 2 to 4 only one request came.
It is maintaining that 4 to 6 only one request came 6 to 8 only one.
And in 8 to 10 currently zero.
So how many requests till now?
Four.
And the limit is five.
So request is allowed at nine.
Okay.
It will get more clear which say that.
Now let's say time has reached till this point.
Time has reached till this point.
Now window has to move.
The main window has to move.
So how much it will move now?
Will it move by one one second?
No it will here in this it will move by window size two seconds.
So two second it will move okay.
So now you see that where the subwindow also comes into the.
So Subwindow has two part.
One is maintain the count of requests within that window particular window.
Also is that the main window?
Slides.
Or you can say that jump according to sub window size.
So sub windows two second.
So when the time reached till this cross this main window size or main window is ten second.
Right now time is still here.
So it has to move.
So how much it will move.
It will move by one window size.
So now our size is this 2 to 12.
Earlier it was 0 to 10.
Now it is 2 to 12.
Okay.
So here sub windows would be now this one.
These are the active sub windows.
2 to 4 one.
4 to 6 is the second.
6 to 8 is your third.
8 to 10 is your fourth.
10 to 12 is your fifth.
So these are the five sub windows of two two seconds okay.
And these are the active.
This one is not active now because this is now before the or you can say that the expired sub window
okay.
So now when at 11th request is coming.
So it has to consider all the active sub window.
So this active one of the sub window is 10 to 12 10 to 12.
So 2 to 4, 4 to 6 628 8 to 10 10 to 12.
So all the sub windows present into this main sub main window.
It will only consider that.
And each sub window maintain how many requests comes into that period Okay.
So they will provide that.
And ultimately it takes the count and it will.
Don't consider the expired subwindow.
Okay.
So simple this one.
So what are the disadvantages.
First is more complex than fixed window logic.
Like you have to maintain a subwindows.
And for each subwindows you have to maintain the count of requests.
Okay.
And when the window slides it has to jump according to the subwindows.
So that is one thing.
Second thing is it also required more memory because you have to maintain a subwindow kind of information.
So another flavor of this is which is little bit simple is sliding window counter with waited window.
Okay.
So this is actually a combination of fixed window plus sliding lock concept.
So in fixed window what we have is let's say fixed window is of ten.
Second window is of ten 10s.
So we have a fixed 0 to 10, 10 to 20, 20 to 30 like this.
We have fixed windows okay.
Like this is yellow green.
So these are fixed windows and sliding lock.
So inside this there we will have a slider window also of a similar size 10s.
So ten second ten second.
We have a window right.
Slider window is also ten second.
So this slider window can slide.
And when it slide some part of it might be into the previous window.
Or another part would be into the current window.
You can say that.
So here if you see that the window one has zero to 10s.
And another window window two, window one.
Window one is 0 to 10, window two is 10 to 20.
And this slider window has 80% currently into window one and 20% into window two.
So it is possible.
Okay, so here we have given a weight.
Now it simplifies our previous uh where we are doing with sliding window with sub windows.
Right.
It simplifies some task for us that we don't have to maintain the sub windows.
We don't have to maintain the sub windows like fixed window.
We maintain that okay.
In this window 0 to 10 0 to 10.
How many requests comes.
Let's say five let's say for whatever.
So it just maintain a total request not sub window type okay.
So see this example.
Let's say our limit is five okay.
In us in a particular slide window maximum five requests we can entertain.
So currently our time is 0 to 10.
Our current time is 0 to 10 Okay.
So now let's say that the our window slider window is also currently here.
Zero to turn all 100% slider window is in the fixed window one okay.
Now request is coming at fifth.
All 100% inside this only then 6789.
So 123455 request comes totally.
It is within a limit of five of slider window okay.
So all are accepted okay.
So total request count in a fixed window is five currently because see here in 0 to 10 it just maintain
how many requests come.
So total five.
Total five.
Request accepted.
Now you will get clarified like how it works.
Now let's say time reached till this point okay means time reached into the second window.
Now window two.
So this slider has to move internally.
So now slider has moved till one to.
Now the window is slider.
Window is 1 to 11.
Earlier it was 0 to 10.
Now it moved by one second 1 to 11.
So if you see that the slider 90% is in window one and currently 10% is in window two, so it need to
see how many traffic how many requests are accepted within this window slider window.
So now just see that it very very basic mathematics only.
So it just find total request.
Total request equals to current.
Fixed window request count plus.
So means whatever in the current window.
This is the current window right.
This is the current window.
How many total requests are present into that?
How many total requests we have accepted?
Currently zero plus.
Because see here we have just moved right 90%.
So how many percentage currently we have here is 90%.
The 90% of total request which are entertained into this window one 0 to 10.
So total five because we are only 90% over window slider window is into the window one fixed window
one.
Right.
So only whatever the total request we have, we only consider this 90% okay.
So let's say it comes out to be a 90% of five is 4.5.
So let's say if we just do ceil round off.
So it would be considered as a five only.
So five is our limit for a slider window.
So we don't allow a request.
So we don't allow request here.
No.
Simple.
Now you will see that disadvantage also.
Plus with another example here also.
Now the request reached till here okay.
Currently slider window at 0 to 11 right 0 to 11.
Now time reached till here between 11 to 12.
So means slider has to move.
So now let's say slider has moved.
Now it become 2 to 12.
This is my slider window now.
So how much it is in 80%.
So 80% is in window one and 20% now is in window two.
So how many total request.
Now let's say any new request is coming.
Should I accept it or reject it.
It has to do first calculate that how many total requests it has present into the slider window.
So current request count.
Okay.
Uh, you can say that the current window.
Current window.
What is the request count.
So currently in 10 to 12.
Window to 10 to 12 zero requests plus 80% of.
So currently 80% of our window slider window is into the window one.
Right.
So 80% of what are the total number of requests was five.
So it just said 80% of five which is four.
So four is less than five because five is our limit of a window slider window.
So it will accept it.
It will accept it.
But now you see that this is the disadvantage itself okay.
But because now in this slider 2 to 12, how many requests came.
123456.
Six it become more than five.
Why?
Because it do not maintain subwindows.
It just compute total requests in a fixed window size.
So what if all the requests present into here at end of the fixed window?
So what happen is our slider will keep on moving.
And when the slider keep on moving its percentage present into the fixed window keep on reducing.
And when this number your keep on reducing then only this ultimately will get increase.
So currently here if you see that there is a chance like 80% when you compute for this, it gives you
four.
It is not accurate info.
So there is a chance that you might entertain more requests than the limit.
Okay.
So 80% of total request, so it accepted 80% of total request is for.
So it assumed that these requests are spread throughout the window, which is actually not the case.
What if all the requests are end of this?
And if you are doing 80%, then it might give you four.
But that's not the true.
Okay, so this is one of the disadvantage of the weighted window.
I hope it is clear with this diagram like how the window slides, uh, within a fixed windows.
Then we have token bucket.
Token bucket is very, very simplified versions.
And uh what happen is we have a kind assume it like we have a bucket and we place the limited tokens
inside it.
Each request consume one token.
If there is no token left, request is denied.
And there is also a refiller which adds the token in bucket at regular time interval.
If bucket capacity is full and cannot hold more token, token overflow will happen and token will be
rejected.
So understand with this is that this is one bucket which has capacity of four token.
So 12344 tokens are present.
There is a refiller which task is to add one token every six seconds.
Okay.
So now lets say that at 12345 second five requests comes up.
So first four because we have four tokens right.
So first request take one token.
Accepted accepted accepted accepted.
Now all four tokens are used.
Okay.
Now fifth request.
Come.
Any token left.
No.
So it is rejected.
Now at sixth second, a refiller adds one token.
So Refiller added one token into the bucket because we have configured it.
Add one token every six second.
So at six second one token is added.
Now if any request comes, it will use it and accept it.
Very very simple.
So disadvantage is that a quick burst is possible if token capacity is not set properly.
What if I have put a token that in a bucket I have capacity equals to 1000 I.
Without doing proper computation, I give random capacity.
Then means that much token can get accumulated.
And what if in a one second itself sudden request comes all 1000, so all 1000 will get accepted.
So there is a chance of burst traffic, okay.
Because whatever the amount of tokens present, that much concurrent request can be accepted.
So you have to consider this token capacity properly.
Okay.
Another is leaky bucket.
Leaky bucket is considered as like request are queued and accepted at fixed rate.
If queue is full, incoming request will overflow.
So let's say you have an incoming request.
Okay bucket.
Or you can say that a queue which is keep on accumulating the request.
Okay.
And the queues are accepted at a very constant or very fixed rate.
So consider this with the flow diagram a request comes if queue is full.
If this queue is full then it will send denied and it will send http 4 to 9.
Too many requests can't even accept.
If queue has some space then it will add the request at the end of the queue and from the queue.
Our system will keep accept the request in a very constant rate.
Very very constant rate.
So very simple.
But disadvantage is your latency will increase because requests might have to wait in queue for its
turn.
So request which is present here.
It has to wait for the previous request to finish and to be accepted.
And your queue is become a bottleneck.
So site size should be set properly.
If the size of the queue is very small, you would be denying lot many requests.
If the size is too big, your latency will increase a lot.
Okay.
And also memory.
You need it right?
So these are various algorithms of rate limiter.
I hope with this examples it will be clear.
Just go through this example one more time slowly and read those texts like the definition which I have
written like this.
Right.
You read it, you will get clarified little better.
Okay, so we will.
Now let's see that how it got implemented in Spring Boot.
So yeah implementation is spring boot.
So first thing first we need resilience for j dependency.
So I have added this dependency.
This one any stable version you can pick right.
So this is the dependency I have added in my pom.xml.
Now rate limiter is just a mechanism inside resilience for J.
Right.
So rate limiting framework will also come inside that also all the classes will come with this resilience
for J itself.
Now here if you see first thing is as usual no change your controller.
So controller is now accepting like any API which you hit.
Just see that I have created a service order service.
Okay.
This is my order service.
So controller is invoking an endpoint here right.
Invoke product API.
So it is just invoking Invoke Product API.
And inside this method I am actually doing invoking the endpoint of a product component okay.
So here we have order component.
It is trying to invoke a product component okay.
So this is the controller.
And here in this I am just invoking a service and order service.
And there this method nothing much.
Second is I am using a faint client.
Right.
We have already covered this in depth.
So I think by this itself you can collect what is happening.
So I have given one interface for the product line get product by ID.
Okay, so this is my name.
I am using Service Discovery.
This all thing we have covered already in this playlist.
So it is pretty clear that we are using.
We can use any client fame, client, Rest template Rest client which will be used to communicate between
order and product component.
Okay, so this is also nothing much.
We have already seen that.
Now here if you see in the order service the method which we have written which is like ultimately invoking
this.
Interface client interface.
Right.
Get product by ID.
This is as usual we are invoking but only this red bucket.
This is the something which is deferred.
So here I have annotated this method with at the rate limiter annotation.
Just give it a name any name to this rate limiter.
Let's say I have given a product rate limiter because I am invoking a product API.
So I have given a name product rate limiter and the fallback method.
So now let's say that multiple requests comes and your rate limiter denied one of the request.
So this request which got denied how it handled.
So there is a fallback method.
So we need to provide.
So it will ultimately move to that fallback method.
So what.
So here I have written that fallback method.
So the method name is rate limited fallback.
So rate limited fallback right inside that you can throw exception or like how you wanted the exception.
You can handle it here.
Either you can simply throw the exception here or like you wanted to handle it, you can handle it according
to your business logic.
So only thing which we required is after dependency.
Whichever the method where you are actually invoking the end point.
So this is the method where I am actually invoking the end point.
You have already seen this in Franklin.
How to invoke it?
I am invoking product this.
But only thing is this is the first thing which we required for this slide annotation.
We have to put the rate limiter annotation on top of that method.
Give it any name to this rate limiter.
Provide a fallback method okay.
And this fallback method should have a signature similar to your.
This method original method where you have written the rate limiter return type should be same.
The parameter it accepts a string, so string it should have a string.
Also, only thing is, apart from all the similarity apart, the next additional parameter it should
have is a throwable.
That's all.
Apart from that, all the parameters should match with your original method, because if it do not match,
the framework resilience framework will not be able to identify your fallback method, and it ultimately
moves to the default fallback method.
So resilience has some called rate limiter class rate limiter class in that they have something called
default method.
Default fallback method.
So first it will try to look that hey exact signature fallback is present or not means return.
Whatever the method you have written here, method name.
That method name is present or not.
Its signature is same or not.
Return type should be same parameters string.
So it also has a string and additionally it can have just throwable okay.
So that is the first thing which we have to do.
Very important.
Like put a rate limiter annotation, provide a fallback method and then in application dot properties
here if you see we have to provide this configuration.
So resilience for j by default rate limiter uses token bucket, so it has three properties.
Limit for period limit refresh period time duration.
So means your bucket maximum number of token it has is two.
Maximum number of token it can have is two.
Okay.
There is a Refiller.
After every 10s it will run and insert two token.
After 10s it will keep on adding two token, but the bucket size is also two the same.
Whatever the limit for period is the same, it is the same bucket size.
Also how many token after ten second two only.
Okay, so let's say that no traffic is come.
Bucket has already two tokens.
If after 10s another two token it try to add it will overflow.
So only two is the maximum capacity.
If more you will try to add, it will overflow and it doesn't get added to bucket.
Now let's say that two token were present.
Three request came.
So this request one accepted.
This token request two has used this token.
Now request 310 second is not yet over.
So new token hasn't been added.
So what?
Request three will done.
It will get rejected.
Right.
So we we can provide a timeout duration.
Hey, wait for one second before you get rejected.
If after one second also there is no new token get added, then you can get rejected.
Okay, so this is the timeout period.
We can define that any request which are not able to find a token instead of instant rejection, we
can make it wait for at least one second if in case token might get present.
Okay, so these are all things we have to do.
Now, you might be thinking that.
Hey, Shreyansh how this by putting this rate limiter, we have put this rate limiter right annotation
how this might have working internally.
It uses the concept of AOP which in the spring boot playlist itself I have discovered in depth very
important AOP.
So it uses the AOP functionality only.
Or you can say that the complete functionality is via AOP only.
I won't go in depth of how AOP works because that's where I have discussed in depth various point cuts
expression.
Right?
So everything you will get to know and you know that we have also discussed how we can write our own
annotation.
Right.
We can handle the complete rate limiter through AOP itself.
No special framework code.
So what happened is that this rate limiter.
Like through AOP, it intercepts the request.
What it does is it first do your rate limiting logic.
Okay.
So by default it uses token based algorithm.
Right.
So first it will invoke the class which has token bucket implementation.
And after that from where if it is comes as accepted then it actually proceed.
You remember from AOP we call proceed.
So ultimately invoke the endpoint.
So here ah I will go to this output part again.
Uh but first see that let's say that uh this will give you a reminder how AOP works.
I'm not going in depth, but if you remember from that AOP topic, you.
Let's say I want to write my you say that hey, I want to write my own custom rate limiter.
I don't want to use token bucket.
I don't want to use whatever the default it is providing.
I want to write my own rate limiter.
So I told you that the rate limiter if you want.
Different algorithm.
You have to handle it through AOP completely okay.
So now let's say that first I have to define an annotation.
So I have defined a custom rate limiter annotation we have already seen into this spring boot playlist
how we can define a custom annotation.
The second part is in the AOP.
I have told you that we have to write an expect class, right?
Expect class where we provide this Pointcuts.
Okay, so now it is listening to this annotation and what it has to do once this annotation is called
what it has to do, it has to first do a rate limiting logic.
Now, whatever the algorithm you want, you can put it ultimately ultimately called proceed, which
ultimately invokes the method.
Right.
This is your ultimately method, right on which you have put this annotation at the rate custom rate
limiter.
Okay, so before actually calling this get product method, you can say it first call this method or
implement the custom rate limiting logic.
And after that it proceed.
After that it implement this method.
So this we have already done inside AOP.
So I won't go into that again.
So in the Spring Boot playlist you can check out this AOP one.
So coming back to this now let's say that with rate limiter right we have provided a rate limiter rate
limiter name fallback method.
In fallback method Its signature should be same as the original method, return type and parameter.
Only thing is throwable should be extra.
How you handle it is totally up to you.
You want to just log it, log it.
You want to throw exception.
You can throw it in the application.properties by default rate.
Limited uses are again token bucket.
And these are the parameters which you have set.
Now according to this one we said that only two tokens are present, and after 10s two more tokens will
come and any request which not able to find a token should wait for one second before it get rejected.
So now here, if you see I have started the service now.
First I hit instantly hit one so it able to call it able to call product API.
Second time I call it able to get call a product API because it got token, it got token the third time
I called.
It says that rate limit exceeded.
Try again later.
So this one, it printed out this.
Okay then I waited for some time to over the ten second so that two more tokens get added.
So after that I hit again.
Able to hit.
So two tokens are consumed again I hit rate limit exceeded.
Try again later.
Then I waited 10s and then I hit again.
So two times it hit properly.
Two tokens consume and I try to hit no rate limited exceeded.
So this is a very very simple right.
So this is what we have done.
Right.
So the same configuration just here if you see from postman hit one time you got it two times.
So see here it waited now.
So because here is some wait happened right.
That's why uh so ten second was over.
So now let's say that let me quickly call one two weighted.
So after two calls retry.
Now ten second is over again.
One two wait.
Now let's say I'm quickly hitting.
Keep on hitting.
123.
Wait wait wait.
So till now here if you see two times token used now hit continuously hit.
So rate limit exceeded because ten second is not yet over.
Token is not yet added.
Now if you hit it, it got invoked.
Okay.
So you understood right how we can implement the rate limiter okay.
And this name rate limiter.
Name product rate limiter.
This is ultimately useful in the configuration itself.
Resilience for J dot rate limiter dot instance.
Because there can be many endpoints on which you have to put this rate limiter.
Okay.
So many configuration you have to put.
So this configuration is for this product rate limiter.
This is product rate limiter.
Similarly you can have for some other component let's say sales rate limiter.
Okay.
I hope this rate limiter concept is clear.
And next we will see bulkhead time limiter circuit breaker and retry.
If any doubt please feel free to, uh ping in the comment section.
We can discuss further, but I would highly recommend that.
Please go through one more time.
I tried to make sure that I don't repeat a lot.
Same concept.
Uh, because that's what I get some time in comment that, uh, I go little fast.
So if you think that I am little fast, I would say that.
Try to have a look one more time and things will get little clear to you.
Okay, guys.
Thank you.
Bye.