Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
And today in Java we are going to do operators in Java right.
So we have used couple of them while doing other previous videos.
Right.
But today in depth we will see like what are the different types of operators we have and see arithmetic
relational.
Many of you already know if you know C++ and all but few operators, which we have to actually focus
more on the bitwise operators and bitwise shift operator, right.
And rest of them would be very, very easy.
You would be able to grasp, uh, as soon as possible.
But I would say that uh, bitwise bitwise shift operator is very important as it might also help you
in solving many DSA problems also.
Okay.
So let's first start with this.
Like what is operator.
So operator is this indicate what action to perform like addition or subtraction.
This one for example five plus three.
So here in this this is the operator.
It tells what action I have to do.
I have to sum this up.
I have to subtract this up I have to multiply this up.
So these which tells which indicate what action we have to do is called operation operator.
And what are the operand, the action which we have to take.
So on which on which item action has to be performed.
Those are known as operand.
So your operand can be variable.
It can be constant.
Also variable means if you have a equals to three b equals to four and you are doing a plus b.
So here these are variables.
These are operands right.
And this is operator.
So we have to do what action do addition on which items these two variables right.
Similarly same example five plus three.
This is your operator and your operand is constant.
Directly we have defined the constant values like five and three.
So these are your operand on which this action has to be taken okay.
So you now clear what is operator.
What is operand and what is expression.
So you might heard like this is the expression.
This is the expression a lot of places lot of if you are reading some blogs or discussing with your
team.
So what is expression is it consists of one or more operand and zero or more operators.
Right.
So you have one or more operand and zero or more operators.
So generally if I say that five plus three into four like plus a, like some something I have.
So this is all combining known as an expression.
So expression consist of one or more operand and zero or more operators Okay, so now we have this basic
thing.
Now let's see what are the categories of operator in Java.
Okay.
So how many categories we have is
123456789
okay.
So now let's first go with the arithmetic operator.
So see this is very very basic arithmetic operators I will not go in depth for this arithmetic operation.
Plus minus divide modulus multiplication.
These are very similar in all the languages.
This is one of the simple class Java class I have written.
Right.
Uh how division works.
So five divided by two I have taken a mod plus minus multiplication.
So this is the output.
You will get five divided by two.
You write right.
Uh two two.
So this is your the answer for this division one.
And this is your for the mod one okay.
So here you got two.
And this is you got one here.
Similarly addition subtraction multiplication you will get it.
So this is very basic one.
So I am skipping it.
But if you have any doubt in this please ping me in the comment section.
Second is relational operators.
So what does relational operator is.
So relational operator compares two operand relation and return either true or false okay.
So it will always return you true and false right.
And what does it compare.
It compares two operand relation right.
Operand can be your constant show.
So five and three.
So there would be some operator.
So it determines this relation right.
Or it can be also operand can also be a variable.
Let's say a b.
There would be some operators which will discuss.
It will tell what is relation.
So here if you see the relational operator What are the different type equals to not equals to greater
than less than greater than equals to less than equals to.
Again very very basic.
You might have used already in your C++ or other language also.
So it's a self explanatory.
But I'll just this just go through this example.
Uh, if you are totally new to this one.
So A is four, B is seven right.
So these are the different relational operator A equals to equals to b.
So this is a relational operator.
Right.
Answer would be the true or false only equals to equals to four is equal to equals to seven.
No.
So it is false a not equals to b.
Yeah four not equals to seven.
True four is greater than seven.
False four is less than seven true.
Like this okay.
So again it's a very simple one.
Go through it once relational operator.
You will easily get it.
But understand that it will always return true or false.
And it compares the relation between two operands.
Then there is something called logical operator.
Logical operator.
What it does is it combines two or more condition and return.
True or false.
Okay.
So it combines two or more condition for example.
So there what are the two types of logical operator and logical and and or logical or.
Okay.
There is something called logical not also I will but are generally some sometimes somewhere you read
they will put it into here.
Not also logical, not also somewhere it also put into unary operator also.
But I find it that logical not is more suited to a unary operator.
I will tell you why, but first let's understand the logical operator.
So these are the two logical operators.
Logical and logical or and what does it do.
It combines two or more condition and return.
True or false?
Let's see an example here.
A is four, B is seven.
So now let's see first logical and.
So this is your logical.
And we are doing.
So what I am doing is look out this condition.
A less than three and a not equals to b.
So what.
First I told you that logical operator combine two condition.
So it is combining this and this condition.
So see this is a again certain check happening.
This is again a certain check happening.
And we are combining it then with the end.
And what ultimately it will return.
It will return ultimately true or false.
Okay.
So I will tell you uh, so a less than three A is four a less than three.
So is it true or false.
This is relational.
Operator.
Right?
So is it true or false?
A less than three.
So this is false.
And and right.
So in and and it's generally let's say like this.
If both are false it would be false.
If one is false one is true it again would be false.
If one is true one is false.
Again it would be false.
If both are true, then only it would be true.
Okay.
So generally that's what and is.
But here we have to understand.
One more thing is as soon as the first one you get as false.
As soon as the first one you get as false, right.
You know that even one of them is false.
So here two are false.
Either one of them is false.
You have to return false.
So the first condition is false.
During the logical end, it will not even compute the second one.
It will directly return false, right?
Let's say for.
In this example, a less than three does A is what four less than three and A not equals to B means
four, not equals to seven.
So four is less than three.
No false.
This will return false.
So we know that in the end condition if any of this condition is false right it return false.
So it will not even compute this part.
It will simply return false.
Right.
So second condition is a greater than three.
So four greater than three and a not equals to b four.
Not equals to b is seven.
So now in this case first is four greater than three true.
So one is true.
Now it has to now evaluate the second one, whether the second one is also true.
If the second one is also true, means it has to return true.
If the second one is come as false, it will return false.
So now in that case, it will evaluate the second one.
So for not equals to seven true.
Both are true true.
So it will return true okay.
Now similarly for the or also for is less than three or for not equals to seven.
Four is less than three false or four not equals to seven.
So now here in the Or case just remember that it is like zero means considered as a false 00011011.
So zero zero is your kind of both are false false.
Even one of them is true.
Return true.
One of them is true is returned true.
Both of them are one return true.
This is what or is.
So here, if you see in that case, if the first one is false, it has to evaluate the second one to
know that the second one is also false or not.
If it is false, then only it will return this.
If the second one is become true, it has to return true, right?
So the first one is false.
Then it it will evaluate the second one for not equals to seven.
This will true.
So ultimately it will return true.
Similarly it's for greater than 3 or 4 not equals to seven for greater than three.
True.
Now one is true in the or one is true true true true.
It output is true.
So it will not evaluate the second one itself.
It will directly return from the here itself.
True.
Okay.
So logical.
Operator.
You got it right.
It combines two or more condition and return.
True or false.
So now let's see say what is unary operator?
Unary operator is known as the operators, which require or work only on single operand single operand.
Right.
So there are 12345 increment decrement unary minus, unary plus, and logical not.
Let's see this example.
Okay.
So here take first increment.
Increment is your plus plus okay.
So now there are two type of increment like so let's say you are doing operand.
You are operand plus plus or plus plus operand.
This one is known as postfix postfix increment.
This one is your known as prefix.
Increment okay.
There is a slight difference in that.
I will tell you how, but understand that what this will do is it increments the value.
How?
Now let's see this one.
So I have kept the value a equals to five.
So operand.
So now unary operator is works only on one operand.
It's not like whatever we have seen relation that a plus b it require two operand a greater than b relational
operator require two operand.
It works only on one operand.
That's why they are known as unary single.
So let's see this increment operator part.
First I am using an example of postfix increment.
So let's say I have done this.
Uh, a is five.
I am doing what a plus plus.
So what does it do.
So first it will return whatever the value it has it will return it and then increment its value a value.
So I am going System.out.println A plus plus.
So first it returns whatever the value A has.
So A has five.
It will return it.
So System.out.println will make print five.
And then it will increment the value of a.
Now value of a become six.
Okay.
Now what happening is I am doing prefix one plus plus a.
So now what does this do.
Is it will first increment the value and then return.
So current value of what is happening six after this first statement.
So now I am doing System.out.println.
Then prefix increment plus plus a.
So six.
First it will increment.
It will plus plus it will become seven and then it will return.
Then it will return.
So it will print seven.
Similarly the for the decrement also.
So current value of a is going as seven.
So Out out dot println a minus minus.
So first it will return.
It's a postfix right.
It will first return the value which is seven and then decrement its value by one.
Then it becomes six here.
So next statement is System.out.println.
And the prefix decrement.
So first it will decrement the value and then return it.
So what is a value now five that will return five okay.
So you understand the increment and decrement order.
So in the both increment and decrement order you have a postfix and prefix okay.
In the postfix first the operand value is written and then its incremented in the prefix.
First operand value is incremented and then return.
Then something there is a logical not operator.
I told you right, log some where you find this logical not also here also inside the logical operator.
But this is a unary.
This is a unary operator means it works with only single operand logical, not operator.
So what does it do is if the value is true, it will make it false.
If the value is false, it will make it true, so it will change it.
So I have one flag which I make it true.
Now I am doing a logical operator.
So this is your logical operator.
Like not okay so I put this before the flag.
So current value of is true.
So what it will change is true to false.
So it will print false right.
So only one operand it works on.
Then we have unary minus you have.
Plus if you put this unary minus above this operand it will change its make it to the negative.
So minus five and similarly unary plus if you add it it will make it positive number again plus five
okay so very simple here.
But understand that unary operator works on single operand.
And these are the five types of unary operators.
Then we have something called assignment operators, like used to assign a new value to the variable.
Right.
So here you can see that we have let's say a equals to b.
This one.
The left hand side one is known as generally variable right here in the assignment.
And this is what known as generally value.
So we are assigning the value to a variable right.
And this is the assignment operator.
So we have different type of assignment operator right.
So generally this is the basic one equals to a equals to five.
So what we are doing is we are assigning the value to a variable a okay.
And whatever we have seen this plus minus divide right.
We can also have a assignment operator with that.
Like like this a equals to.
If you write this a plus five.
Let's say you have defined a equals to five.
Means now you have assigned the five to the A.
Now you can also do this a equals to a plus five.
So or you can say that a equals to a plus four.
Okay.
So now whatever the value of A has five now it will become five plus four nine.
So in the short you can also write it like this A plus equals to four.
This is equivalent to this only a equals to a plus four right.
So this is also an assignment.
You can use this as an assignment also.
So you can do plus minus equals to multiply equals to divide equals to all this operators you can use
with the equals to also.
So it will be simple like this a equals to a.
Whatever the operator you are using here that operator let's say divide.
And what is the value.
Right.
So here it would be short form would be a divide equals to four.
Right.
So this divide equals to will be expanded like this equals to and then a divide by the value.
Okay.
So this is uh here assignment operator.
Just uh, for this one, just have a look at this.
A equals to five.
This is the variable.
So I have first do a normal assignment.
Assign the value of A to a variable.
So now my variable become five.
So I'm printing it this.
Now I'm assigning it again a variable to zero.
So zero now become to a variable.
Now I am doing variable plus equals to a.
So how it would be treated variable equals to variable plus a.
This is how it will be transformed to.
So zero plus a what is five.
So it will print five.
So variable the value.
It now is your five.
Now I am doing variable minus equals to.
So it would be variable equals to variable minus three.
Variable was five five minus three.
It will become two.
Variable value is now two.
Now I am doing variable into equals to how it will be transformed into variable equals to variable into
a which is five.
So variable was two 5 to 10.
Similarly this would be variable equals to variable divided by what is the a 510 divided by two two.
So you got it right.
You can put any variable operator operator like this with the assignment.
And that would how it would be translated to.
Okay.
Now this is very important.
Bitwise operator.