They said welcome back.
And today we will cover the Java 16 feature which is pattern matching for instance, of operator.
Okay, so we have already covered what is instance of operator.
If you haven't seen that, kindly check it out.
It would be helpful.
So this is how generally we use it.
Say you have an object and inside that object we can have let's say string whatever.
And within an if condition we can check.
Hey is this object is an instance of string.
If yes, we typecast it to a string, we typecast this object to a string, and after that we use it.
So with an old way, there is an extra overhead of doing this typecasting.
So this is now resolved through Java 16 pattern matching feature.
So in Java 16 it is finalized.
Maybe you got this in the preview in the previous version but finalized happen in Java 16.
So how we gonna use it like now.
Again, the same in the object.
You can have anything.
Now, if condition object is instance of string.
And after that you can give any variable name whichever you want okay.
So internally what it will do is it will first do the comparison.
Comparison is that.
Yeah.
Is object instance of string or not.
If this is true then it is automatically do the typecasting.
So it will automatically do this typecasting like this object is typecast to a string and assign it
to s, whatever the variable you will give.
And you can directly use it.
You don't have to do that.
It is all happening typecasting happening internally.
So the scope of this variable, which you have defined, right, it exists inside the block only okay.
So within this block you can use this outside this block You can't.
Okay.
And also compiler ensured the type safety.
So now let's say that you have multiple hierarchy of if else if.
So let's say if object instance of string and the variable name if object instance of integer then I
if else if object instance of user then the variable name you have defined you.
So compiler ensure type safety like whichever become true.
Let's say you are here.
In this case it is a string.
Object is a string.
So this instance of string will become true after do after then it will do a typecasting of object to
string properly.
Let's say if your object is integer then this condition will get true.
Object is instance of integer.
Then it will do a proper typecasting and assign it to I properly integer obj.
So it ensures the type safety.
We don't have to worry about that.
We are doing a type casting correctly or not.
Okay, like this we can directly use the variable.
We can also combine it with end operator.
So here if you see that object instance of integer and then your variable I.
After this we can use with and operator also okay.
So you can say that we can add further more restriction or conditions okay.
So now object is integer.
Yes.
Then what is the.
So this is first condition comparison object is instance of integer true.
The second comparison.
The second thing is type casting.
So what it will happen is this object is now type casted to integer and assign it to I.
Okay.
And now you can use it like this I less than ten I greater than whatever the value okay.
And uh if that condition is true internally, you can use it to.
Okay.
So after the assignment after the typecasting happened.
So this get initialized.
So first it will become comparison need to be true.
After that typecasting and initialization happen.
And then only this works.
You can't use it like I less than ten first.
And an object instance of integer I.
That will not work okay.
So first this has to be there.
And after that you can use this.
But pattern matching does not work in combination with or operator with.
And it works because it gives a guarantee that I is an integer, but with an Or condition.
Let's say I am using object instance of integer or object instance of string, and I have also given
the pattern like uh, uses the pattern matching integer space variable name.
I similarly object instance of string space variable name.
So in this case the control.
In this case this object goes inside this.
But will you be able to access this I and s no.
In this pattern matching internally will not work.
Okay.
So because there is no guarantee that whether this object is an integer or whether it's a string okay.
So internally it don't do typecast it just like a normal old fashioned instance of them.
Even though you are writing here, it would it is of no use internally.
It is not doing pattern matching.
Okay.
Pattern matching can also works with interface.
So now here, if you see, let's say I have an interface vehicle which has a abstract method drive.
I have two children, two Wheeler and four Wheeler, and both has overridden the drive method and provide
their implementation.
So in without pattern matching in the old way, how we would be using, let's say this is my object
which contain an instance of two Wheeler.
So in if condition we would be looking.
Hey, if this object is instance of two Wheeler, then I would typecast this object to two Wheeler and
then call the drive method.
Similarly, if object is instance of four Wheeler, I typecast it to four Wheeler and then you can invoke
the drive method.
Generally this is how we do.
But with pattern matching say object is two Wheeler.
What we can do is we can do this if object instance of vehicle the parent one.
We can give the parent one if object instance of vehicle okay and space the object.
Whatever you want to give internally it will do first comparison.
Yes object is instance of vehicle.
So object is currently two Wheeler.
So our parent vehicle is also can handle the child also.
So that's why this condition will true.
Object is instance of vehicle.
Also both two Wheeler four Wheeler is nothing but an instance of vehicle.
So that will become true now.
Second it will do typecasting.
And while it internally do typecasting it will properly assign.
So in this case it will properly.
So it's a object is new two Wheeler.
Right.
So it will automatically do a typecasting to a proper child class.
Proper subclass.
So when you call this drive method it will print two Wheeler drive implementation properly.
li.
Okay.
If this is like new four Wheeler, and if you call this drive, it will call proper four wheel drive
implementation properly.
Okay.
So there is something called pattern matching.
With switch.
So currently we have seen is pattern matching with instance of operator which is available in Java 16.
Now this there is something called pattern matching with switch okay.
This is available in Java 21.
So that's why I will cover it in to the separate video because this functionality is available in a
total different Java version but very similar.
Okay.
So yeah, if there is any doubt in this let me know.
We can discuss further.
But yeah, it is very small concept but handy.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.