# Load Balancer and Different Algorithms

Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept and Coding.
And this is Shreyansh.
So today we are going to cover this topic Load balancer.
So I am making this topic okay.
So now if you see not much topics are left in the theory part of the playlist.
We have covered so many topics and we are going to soon start the questions right.
So let's start with the load balancers and our different algorithm.
So first thing first what is load balancer.
Right.
So you know that we have a client server.
So our this is our client.
There can be many clients right.
There can be many clients.
And we have a server.
There can also be a many server.
Server one server two server N.
Right.
So when a request comes from the client, when a request comes from the client so that all the requests
should not goes to one server.
So one server should not get overloaded.
So what we do is we put load balancer.
The main purpose.
So now nowadays if you see the load balancer can do lot of things.
It can do logging, it can do so many other stuff.
But the main purpose of load balancer is to distribute this traffic appropriately to all the servers
so that no, no one single server get overburdened.
Now, if you see that the categories of load balancer there are two types.
L4 balancer, which is nothing but a network load balancer type L7 balancer which is nothing but a application
load balancer.
So you know that there are seven layers of OSI model.
So the seventh layer is your application.
And I think the fourth layer is your transport layer right.
So application layer is known as L7 balancer.
Network load balancer is known as your L4 balancer, which works at the transport layer.
Now what is the difference.
So here the major difference between the application layer load balancer and transport or network layer
load balancer is it can read your header session even data right.
It can also read your response also.
Right.
So what it can do is it can take decision to distribute this traffic based upon information from header
session cookies data.
Right.
And it can also have the capability to do the caching.
So it can also do caching also.
Why.
Because it can read the response right.
So you can say that it is much more advanced.
So this is much more Advanced right and in the other layer.
Network load balancer or L4 load balancer.
It can have your TCP port UDP port IP address.
IP address of source and destination.
So based on this only it can take a decision whether to route this traffic to which server.
Right.
So this is much more advanced but this is much more faster.
Now one more thing I just want to say before we start, there are a lot of algorithms you find over
the internet, right.
Like this, this, this.
They do not categorize it, whether it's a network or application, but based on my understanding of
the network and application load balancer, all these algorithms which are mentioned everywhere, everywhere,
like these are the load balancer algorithm.
This based on my understanding this comes under the network load balancer type.
So now let's first start with our algorithms which is first static algorithms.
Static load balancing.
The first static load balancing is your round robin.
So see everybody knows about the round robin right.
So this is your client right.
This is your client which is giving a request 1234.
It goes to the load balancer.
Now load balancer knows about this server okay.
So there are two servers.
Server one server two.
What it will do is in a round robin fashion.
So it goes first.
Now the second goes here.
Third goes here fourth goes here.
Now if there is more request comes fifth goes here, six goes here, seven eight.
And likewise.
So you know right round robin first server one.
Second.
Server two, third again server one, server to server one.
Server one two.
So this is a very simple round robin algorithm.
But there are certain advantage and disadvantage of it which is very very important to know about it.
Without this it would be incomplete.
So advantage of round robin is very very easy to implement right.
There is nothing very simple algorithm equal load distribution to all the servers.
So if let's say if you got ten requests you definitely know that five will goes to is five will goes
to is because it's a round robin one given to server one, another given to server two, and likewise
so equally distribute the load to the server.
But what is the disadvantage?
Can you think about it?
The disadvantage is a one server with high capacity and another with low.
Both will be treated as same.
So let's say this server has very high capacity.
Let's say this is ten times Faster or ten times more resources.
Ten times more resources than this.
It is only one time, let's say.
But still this got the five request.
This is still got the five request.
Right.
So round robin you can't do like based upon the capacity.
You can define like okay which server get the more requests okay.
So chance that low capacity server will go down because of the overload of requests.
Right.
For this server it is only one times.
And this has ten times more resources.
So it can easily process the five requests.
But maybe for this five request is very much right.
So it's chance that this will go down.
So this is your round robin.
The second is weighted round robin.
So whatever the problem we disadvantage the previous one has that okay.
It treat both high capacity and low capacity same.
So it tried to do this.
Solve this how?
By giving the weight.
That's why the name weighted round robin.
Okay.
So how it can give a weight.
So let's say I told you right.
Let's say this server is one time and this server is three times of this capacity.
Right.
Three times of the capacity.
So now when a request is coming.
So again first thing you notice it's a round robin.
So first all the requests given to server one then server two then server one then server two.
Likewise only.
So let's say first three requests.
So it's a three times of server two right.
Capacity.
So now weight represent capacity of server.
Here the weight represents the capacity of the server.
So now the server one is three times more has more capacity than server two.
So when the request comes so first request goes to server one.
Second request also goes to server one.
Third request also goes to server one because it is three times more powerful than server two.
Three times more powerful.
So it.
So let's say if it get one request, it will get three requests.
Likewise okay, so when three requests first three requests comes.
It goes one here to the server, one second goes to the server, one third goes to the server one.
Now fourth request comes in.
It goes to server two.
Now fifth request comes in.
It goes to here.
Sixth request comes in.
It goes here.
Seventh request comes in.
It goes here now eighth request will goes here.
Let's check its advantage and disadvantage.
Advantage low capacity server will get saved from receiving the large number of requests.
So now here what we are doing is we are saving the server to that okay.
Hey server server one has more capacity than you so it is getting more requests.
Hey, you have less capacity, so you are getting less requests.
So that is considered so low capacity server will get say from receiving the large number of requests.
Easy to implement as weights are static.
No dynamic computation.
So this weight right.
These are static in nature.
So when any new server is started added right.
Load balancer knows.
So we will give a weight to this server and load balancer know okay this is the weight.
So it can just use that weight to determine where the request has to be sent.
It is a load balancer.
Do not do any dynamic computation.
So that's why it is under static algorithm.
But what is the disadvantage can you think one disadvantage here.
So see the biggest disadvantage here is the request which comes right.
It some requests are like it can be completed very fast.
Some requests which takes time.
Right.
So that's why which I mentioned here.
If requests have different processing time, then it's possible that low capacity server get high processing
requests and get overburdened.
For example this server one got 123 server two, which is uh, wait is only one.
It got one.
Okay.
But this four is let's say it's taking 10s.
And here the server one, uh, in this one, two, three is got completed and millisecond let's say
50 millisecond.
It completed in 30 millisecond.
It's completed in four milliseconds.
Very small request.
But the request which server two is getting.
It's very high ten second.
So now after that five it goes right.
1234.
Let's say five, six seven.
It goes eight.
Now eight is also more.
Eight is also let's say 20s.
So this is still running now.
this is also pending.
It is also going to be has to be processed.
But these are very quick one.
It is taking ten milliseconds 70 milliseconds eight milliseconds.
So here if you see that what I'm trying to say, even the load is distributed based upon the weight.
But what if the high processing request comes to the server too?
So while it is still processing the previous one, another comes while it is still processing this one.
Another comes right.
So this is a chance that when the low capacity server gets the high processing request, it is possible
that it will get overburdened soon.
Now let's go to the IP hash.
So now why this is also a static because see now here every client has a IP address source IP address.
Now here the load balancer use this source IP address to do, compute the hash number.
So using the hash function you will get some value.
And based upon that value you will assign the request to the server.
Right.
So let's say you compute for this source IP address you compute the hash and you got that okay.
This has to be goes to the server one server.
Server two uh like client two when you get this IP address you compute the hash.
And with this hash you get that okay.
Server two will we have to put.
So looks simple but there is an advantage is good for use case where same client need to connect to
the same server.
So see now client one.
So client one has this IP address right.
So no matter how many times you do a hash you will also always this request goes to server one.
So any use case where you have that hey same client should go to the same server, then this algorithm
is good.
There are so many disadvantages of this.
One of the biggest disadvantage is I.
If you have read the previous video like I created on the proxy, you will understand that if the client
request is coming through a proxy, then all the clients will have the same source IP address.
So you know that, right?
If this is a client, this is a client.
Client one.
Client two.
In the previous video, what I told you that if they are, all the request goes through a proxy in the
proxy.
And what proxy is this forward proxy.
So in the previous video I told you that and when it reached to a server server knows about the IP address
of this proxy.
So this IP address is let's say 192 something something something 182 something something something.
It is 172 something something something.
So server will know only about the IP address of the proxy 172.
And that's all.
So server doesn't know about these IP addresses, right?
So if the client request is coming through a proxy, then all the clients will have the same source
IP address.
Which one.
Because server will now know only know about the IP address of proxy.
And when you do a hashing of that proxy IP address, you know that it will always goes to the server
one server only.
So let's say here you have a proxy sitting in proxy.
So proxy here.
Here it is 1921822172152.
Let's say it is 162 .1.0.1.
So now all the requests which are coming through this, it will go through proxy load balancer knows
only about this IP address.
IP address is hash of 162 only.
Right.
And all the requests will goes to let's say one of the server only.
So all the requests 1234 all request goes to one of the server.
so it is chance that one of the server get bombarded because of this issue.
And also in the hash you cannot guarantee equal distribution.
So it's a hash, right?
What if this even if, let's say proxy is not there, even if proxy is not there, you just compute
the hash of this source IP address.
There is no guarantee that it will equally distribute.
It's possible that 143 come here, two goes here.
So there is no guarantee that equal distribution.
So that's why these are static algorithms.
And I think you got the advantage disadvantage of all the static load balancing.
Now let's come to dynamic algorithms right.
As the name says itself dynamic so means something is dynamically computed to determine the load balancing.
One thing is least connection.
So now let's say the requests are coming from the clients.
And you have a load balancer.
And there we have a server.
So now let's say server one already have two active connection.
Active connection from client one and client three.
Server two has only currently one active connection right.
So what load balancer do is it will check which server has less active connection.
So let's say any new request which are coming right.
What load balancer do this.
Hey which server has the less active connection.
It will say that okay server two you have only one active connection.
Server one you have two active connection.
So it will transfer the request to server two because it has only one active connection right.
Advantage dynamic as it considers the load on each server dynamically.
It's not static that no server two will always load capacity.
Always end to this no dynamically check which has less connection.
And based on that it's sent So the chance of overburden of the server is less when each server has equal
capacity.
Now let's say these both are equal server.
So now it just check like which server has less active connection.
It's sent to those.
So it will guarantee that okay no one will get overburden.
They get equal requests.
But what is the disadvantage.
So the first disadvantage which I can think of is like see in the TCP connection TCP connection can
be active.
So this is client this server you made a TCP connection.
So TCP connection can be active but possible have no traffic no traffic.
So the this purpose will fail right.
So even though let's say it is making an active connection with client two right.
Uh, or let's say this one, it is making a active connection with client one and client three.
Right.
But there is no traffic.
But even though server two is making a connection with client to.
There is lot of traffic from this, lot of traffic from this.
Let's say it is sending request 1234567.
Lot of traffic is coming from client to but client one and client three even though connection is there
but there is no traffic or let's say very very less traffic.
Let's say only one request request.
One request, let's say three only.
So that's why I say that it's do not differentiate between low capacity and high capacity chance that
the low capacity server will get overburdened because maybe it has only less connection.
But the number of requests which are getting from that connection, uh, it might be high.
Got it.
So that's why the second things which comes in weighted least connection.
Right.
The what the similar thing which we see in the weighted round robin.
Right.
Similarly weighted least connection.
So what we have done here is we have assigned a weight also weight also.
So this server has let's say one, but this server is ten times of server one, right?
Ten times of server one.
And also it has the connection information that how many active connections are present at server one.
How many active connections are present at server two.
Now when any request comes in, when any new request comes in, right.
What load balancer do is it will calculate the ratio of what it will calculate the ratio of number of
active connections to its weight, number of active connections okay.
So this server has two active connections.
And but it has ten times of more capacity than it will compute the ratio of it.
Right.
Let's say it's two by ten two active connection and the weight is ten.
It has one active connection.
Weight is one.
And so result is one.
here is 0.2.
So means and it will forward the request with the minimum ratio.
So it is minimum 0.2.
So it will forward it to that.
There is something called least response time.
Hey this is very interesting right.
So first thing is you need to understand something is before I said this Tfb.
So what is Tfb is Tfb is time to first byte.
So the time interval between sending a request and receiving the response from the server, the first
byte or first byte.
Or you can say that the first packet from the server in the response.
So the time interval between sending the request and receiving the response from the server.
It is known as Tfb.
Time to first byte.
So as from the name, you might be seeing that least response less response one.
Right.
So how does it do.
So this is very, very important.
Uh, just see this how this will take care of this one.
So let each server has two things.
What are the active connection.
And it also has tfb like what is the response time.
Let's say its response time is for example three active for this server two active connection is for
response time is one server is three.
Let's say three active connection is zero, response time is two.
So see this response time load balancer.
Compute dynamically like it.
Send a request packet and track the response okay.
How much response I am getting it.
It picked the server which has less.
This is the.
What it will do is multiply the active connection into least tfb.
Right?
So let's say currently it is request.
Let's say four is coming, four is coming.
So now to whom request will send what.
It will compute active connection into least gtfb.
So server1 what it would be three into two this three into two six server two is one into four, server
three is zero into or two into zero which is zero.
So the request will goes to the least one which is server three.
So it goes to the server three.
Now it become active connection one.
Now let's say another request comes is three right.
Uh so now what it will do is it will compute again okay.
Six four.
Now here it would be two again which is less again.
Server three is less.
So request three will also goes here.
Now the active connection become two.
Now it will compute again.
So now let's say request to another.
One more request is coming.
So it is still unchanged.
Six, four.
Now here it's four.
This is also four.
Now here.
If you see that now or request two is sent to which one, request two is sent to which one.
Either server two because it has four, even server three which is also now four.
So now here it follows the round robin okay.
Server two is first give it to server two.
Its connection become high five.
So you got it right.
Now any time any new request comes in, it will compute this calculation and find out which server it
has to go.
And if 2 or 2 or more server has the same value of active connection into least tab, it follows the
round robin.
Simple okay.
So these are the everything about load balancer.
And yes see you soon guys.
I hope you, uh, got lot of information out of this.
Thank you.
Bye.
