# Database Indexing: B+ Tree, Data Page, Clustered and Non-Clustered Indexing

Welcome back on this side.
And today we are going to do database indexing mostly database.
When I say it's a relational database management system which we are going to discuss.
So this question has been very very frequently asked database indexing.
So I will share you my understanding of how database indexing works.
Okay.
So before we start even discussing the indexing right, we have to first understand this three things
right.
How actual the table data is stored.
First thing that should be cleared, how table data rows are actually stored.
What type of indexing present, understanding the data structure used for indexing and how it works.
Right?
So once we have this three better clarity, then only we can understand how DBMs make use of all these
three things and able to perform the indexing Okay, so one thing was I would tell you that, uh, so
whenever the tables which you have, let's say you have a table, this is row.
This is column, right.
And you have a data one, two three, 4ABCD.
Right.
So generally what question or what whenever the indexing come generally what engineer might be saying
that okay we will create an index on this particular.
Let's say we are doing an indexing on this particular column.
So we will create an index 12345.
Right.
And it will point to this rows right.
And any query will happen.
It will happen on top of it.
It will able to fetch faster okay.
You want for.
So on this index it will able to find the faster.
And it will goes to point to the particular row.
Okay.
So what I'm trying to say is that this is very high level.
But today we are going to step down into one level deeper because that's where the interview follow
up questions asked.
Okay, so now let's go into a little bit deeper.
And I'm not going to shut down or cut down this video shorter because if even if it is go a little bit
longer I will continue to it.
I will not do any trimming for sure.
Okay.
So let's first discuss how data is actually stored.
Very very important.
So now let's say this is your table.
You have a row one two, three four rows and three columns.
And let's say these are the three columns employee ID name and address.
So this is generally a very very you can say that typical table let's say employee table.
So this is just a logical representation.
This is just a logical representation.
This is now this is not how actual the data is stored in the DB, right?
This is just a logical representation, not a physical representation.
Remember that.
Okay, so when we say that hey this is logical representation, then how the actual data is stored okay.
So now let's say in our table we have this data for rows three columns.
So what DBMs will do.
What DBMs will do.
Database management system what it will do.
It will create data pages right.
And one data page generally it's generally of eight kb in size.
Depends upon what DB you are using okay.
But generally the size of one data page is eight kb okay.
Each data page can store multiple table rows in it.
Okay, so now we know that this is just a logical representation.
These rows are actually stored in data pages which DBMs creates, right?
How so?
This is how a typical database looks like.
So when I say that it's an eight KB.
So in eight KB how many bytes are there 8192 bytes okay.
Now 96 bytes are reserved for the header in a header.
What generally information it has.
It has page number how much free space this page has checksum and etc. okay.
So header information I would say that uh it has very basic information like page number, free space
checksum etc. which is 96 byte.
After that 806 bytes, 8060 bytes are reserved for data records.
When I say that data records, it is actually the rows.
So here the actual the rows will be stored.
So actual data is stored in here.
And last 36 byte is known as offset array actually.
So what does offset contains is it contain an array.
And each index of an array holds a pointer to the corresponding data in the data records.
Right.
So in this data page this is an header.
Let's say it has the pages.
Row one data.
Row two data.
Row three data.
Let's say only three rows are there.
In this offset there is an array.
0123.
So zero will point to let's say row one.
One will point to let's say row two.
So what I mean to say is that this offset array contains a array of.
You can say that a pointer and this what it point to it point to the actual rows.
Now you can ask me, hey why we need this offset array.
We will see that how it helps DBMs.
But don't worry.
First of all what I want you to understand is how database looks like.
So one thing, very basic thing you should know is DBMs creates data page and inside a data page actual
the rows are stored.
Okay, so that only you should understand at this point of time.
And don't worry about the offset array.
We will see with an example and how DBMs make use of it.
Okay, so offset is just an array of you can say that pointer pointer to what pointer to the particular
row inside a data records space Okay, so total eight KB data pages, and out of this eight KB 8060
byte is actually there for the rows or actual data, and rest is for header and offset array.
Okay, so now it's clear that these rows which we are creating, it looks like it is creating.
It's stored like a table.
But actually it is going here in the data page.
So now let's see this.
So if one table row is let's say 64 bytes.
So now let's say this row one is of 64 bytes.
So this is let's say I'm just saying hypothetically let's say it is 16 bytes right.
This is also 16 bytes right.
This is 32 bytes.
I'm just saying.
And it all combined to 64 bytes.
So one row.
One row is your 64 bytes.
Right.
And we know that for storing the rows how many bytes it is available in a data page.
8060 bytes.
So 8060 divided by 64.
So almost around 125.
It comes so means in one data page.
If it is a size of eight KB, then we can store 125 DB rose in it, right?
If one row is of 64 bytes and one data page is of eight kb, then we can have 125 DB rows in it, right?
And how data page is generally look like.
So we have header.
So I have just kept for simplicity only page ID or page number like one.
Right.
And then the second part is your data record.
Data record which actually holds the data, the the way the row is inserted into a table or by a user.
In the same way, generally the rows are inserted.
So user has inserted row one.
So it has inside this input.
Row one.
Row two.
Row three.
Row four.
Row two.
Row three.
Row four.
And if let's say it has added five row five okay.
Like this.
It will add how many it can store 125 DB rows.
It can hold.
Then what is the third step.
Third step I told you it's an offset array.
So here I have created an offset array.
Okay so this offset array has index like an array 012345.
Right 01234.
So zero it is pointing to.
Let's say row two.
This one is pointing to row four.
Two is pointing to row five.
Three is point three is pointing to row three.
And fourth index is pointing to R1.
Okay.
So what does offset array hold is now it's clear it's an array.
And this array actually contains a pointer.
Pointer to what the actual data which is present inside the this data page.
Now you can ask me like hey what is this ordering at zeroth index R2 is stored right.
And at fourth index R1 is stored.
So doesn't make sense right?
It is not ordered.
Not increasing order.
Not decreasing order.
What is this order.
right?
So don't worry about that part, because when I will come to that, then it will make sense.
Better how DBMs is make use of offset array.
But now you should be clear with this that how your data is actually stored by a DBMs.
So this table is actually visible to you.
But for DBMs the way it is stored is like a data page.
So for each page it gives a number and it stores the data in a page like in this data records area.
Right.
And for each this rows there is an offset.
It also maintains the offset also where it put a pointer.
And the ordering DBMs will decide when we discuss about indexing.
Okay.
Till now it is clear right?
All these numbers which I am saying eight KB, eight KB 64 bytes.
That depends.
Right?
That depends upon db to db.
So, but for this one this is the most common.
Generally you will see data pages eight by eight KB.
Cool.
So till now we know that okay this table how it is represented in one page.
So DBMs remember that DBMs creates and manage this data page.
So this this page whichever we have talked who manages DBMs.
So total control over the DBMs.
So for storing one table data it can create many data pages.
So now let's say this table grows and it contains let's say row 10,000 like row 10,000.
So definitely 10,000 rows cannot come into page one right.
So it's upon DBMs only to create multiple pages.
It will create page two, page three, page four, or page 100 and keep on storing the rows in it.
Okay, so DBMs creates and manages this data pages.
And for storing one data table data it can create many data pages.
Okay I know that the very big questions coming to your mind here.
If there are hundreds of pages, how DBMs is gonna manage it right.
We will come to that one.
But for now, for simplicity, a table data is generally stored in a data page and one data page is
full.
DBMs can create more data pages and keep on storing the table data.
Till now, very basics.
We know now where these data pages ultimately get stored.
These data pages ultimately get stored in the data block.
Now, this data block is actually a physical memory.
This is actually a physical memory, right?
Like disk on a disk.
There is a so you know, right disk.
And then there would be a some sector track.
So there would be one data block.
You can say that data block.
So what does data block means.
First understand what is data block means.
So data block is the minimum amount of data which can be read and write by one input output operation.
So you can say that this is the minimum amount of data.
Which 1IO operation can read or write right.
So this is the minimum amount of data which you can fetch in a single shot.
Or which data blocks can have 1IO operation.
Okay.
And who manages this data block.
It is managed by the underlying storage system.
Let's say like disk or HDD.
Let's say if it has data block.
So it is managed by storage system.
Underlying storage system.
So remember that data block is not managed by DBMs.
It is not managed by DBMs.
It is managed by storage underlying storage system like this.
Data manage DBMs.
Manage only data page.
Right.
So whatever the data you have, you have to put into somewhere into the memory or disk.
Right.
And inside a disk what ultimately we have is data block.
So these data pages which DBMs creates, who creates it, which DBMs creates ultimately get stored where
inside a disk or inside a memory.
Right inside a disk.
So it stored actually in the data blocks, and DBMs has no control over this data blocks.
It can be scattered.
So now let's say if this disk has thousands or millions of data blocks, let's say DBMs has no control
that okay, my page one goes here in this data block.
My page two for example.
It can go into this data block.
Data block let's say 100 data block.
Let's say one.
So what I'm trying to say is that DBMs only has control till data pages.
It can decide what data I can store into this, what rows I can store into a particular database.
Right.
But when it is writing to the actual disk memory, right, then it ultimately gets stored into a data
block and it has no control over it.
Okay, so now you know what is data block?
It is the minimum amount of data which can be read and write by an input output operation.
So data block size can range from four KB to 32 kb.
And most common size is eight kb.
So now let's say your data page which dbms's manage it is of eight KB.
Data block which actually stores the data in the like a physical location.
It range from.
Four KB to 32 KB.
But most commonly you will find is also same like an eight KB.
So if it is eight KB means one data block, one data block stores one data page only.
But if it is, let's say 32 KB then it can store multiple data pages.
Data page one, data page two, data page three.
Right.
So one data block itself can store multiple data pages okay.
So based on the data data block size it can hold one or many data page okay.
Now there is one more thing is DBMs maintains the mapping of the data page and data block.
Because I told you that DBMs has no control over the data block.
Where this particular page where my page, where the data page is stored, it has no control over it.
So that's why it maintain a mapping.
Ping.
That's why DBMs maintains a mapping that hay data.
Page one goes into this address.
Data block one.
Data page two ultimately goes to this address data block one itself.
So it is possible that one data block.
This is let's say data block one.
One data block can hold multiple pages.
Data page one.
Data page two.
It's stored in the same data block.
Because data block size can be higher than the data page right.
So DBMs maintains this mapping that okay this my my my this page because DBMs maintain this page.
Right okay.
This page one is stored in this block.
This page two is stored in this block.
This page three is stored in this block, right.
Like this.
So remember DBMs controls the data page.
Like what rows goes inside, in which page or sequence of the page, etc., but has no control on the
data block.
Data block can be scattered over the disk.
Okay, so I think you should be clear with till now.
The first part how the table data actually stored in the DB.
So this is not this is just a logical representation.
The ultimately stored in a data page for one table.
There can be so many data pages right.
And each data page is stored in ultimately the physical memory of data block.
And one data block can hold many data pages.
Right.
And DBMs maintains the mapping.
Also which page goes into which data block.
Okay.
Till now we are clear.
Now let's see the second part.
What type of indexing present in RDBMS?
Now here, if you see that the things become little.
You can say that.
Interesting.
So this name you might have heard a lot.
Clustered indexing and non-clustered indexing.
I know the things which will be going in your mind.
Primary index.
As soon as you heard a name indexing it you will be like primary index.
Secondary index.
And what is that composite index like?
There would be so many indexing.
So all this things should have come in your mind.
But from the indexing DBMs perspective they are categorized into two types clustered indexing.
Non clustered indexing.
So forget about like before we understand clustered index and non-clustered indexing, first we have
to understand what is indexing.
When we are saying indexing, indexing indexing.
But what does indexing means right.
What data structure is used for doing that?
Indexing how it works.
Then we can come to that okay clustered and non clustered.
But first we have to better understand what indexing is how it is done.
So in a simple term if I say that what indexing is, it is used to increase the performance of the database
query so that data can be fetched faster.
Okay.
So indexing is just nothing but doing to increase the performance of the query, so that it helps us
to find the data much faster.
Without indexing, DBMs has to iterate each and every table row to find the requested data.
so you know that it maintain the data pages.
Data page one.
Let's say there are.
Thousand data pages inside this thousand data pages there are, let's say one lakh rows data.
Right now, if you have to find something that, hey, give me data with employee ID 35.
Now DBMs doesn't know that which this employee 35 record goes into which data page it doesn't know.
All DBMs has till now is indexing okay.
This data page is goes into this block.
So what it can do is that in a worst case it will iterate over this mapping.
Okay.
My page one it will goes to this physical memory row.
Load the data.
Load this block into the main memory.
Take out the rose.
Read this page and see it.
Read this page and see that hey, does employee ID 35 present know if it is?
No, it goes to the second one.
Okay.
My page two is store is in this block again.
So it is already in memory.
So it will load that page page two.
Right.
And then it will again its page two.
It will check all its rows.
Hey have I found this employee ID 35 or not.
Let's say for example, worst case this employee is present in the last data page, the last mapping
which is present here.
Then it has to iterate over all the data pages and inside all the data pages it has to iterate over
all the rows.
So what is the worst time complexity?
Big O of n.
So without indexing it has to check each and every row.
Right.
And if there are let's say millions of rows present.
Query can take some time to fetch the data, right?
Because it has to goes to that particular data block from the mapping.
Fetch the data, load into the memory, read the data page, take out its rows, and then read it and
see.
So we know that indexing is used to make the query run faster.
Without it it would be big O of N, but with it, what would be the best time complexity we can give?
So there is a data structure which is used which is known as B+ tree.
It provides big O of log n time complexity for insertion, searching and deletion.
So this is very very frequently used B+ tree while for doing the indexing right.
So without indexing big O of N is the time complexity to search any data inside a table With indexing.
Our purpose is to make our searching faster and which data structure it use.
It uses B+ tree, right?
So B here is stand for balanced actually.
So now till now we are slowly understanding okay what indexing is and why for making the indexing works
what data structure is used B+ tree it provide a big O of log n time complexity.
So before I go further into the cluster non-clustered index, let's first see how B-tree works.
It will clear your mind actually how this data indexing works.
So I'll talk about B-tree.
So B-tree and B+ tree is very, very similar right.
So if you understand B-tree B plus tree is somewhere near to exactly same okay.
So now I am saying B-tree and at last I will said that it is a B plus three.
How it adds certain additional feature, but both are exactly same.
So I'm just telling you how B3 works so it maintains the sorted data.
Okay, all leaves are at the same level.
M order B3 means each node can have at most m children.
For example, two order B tree means each node can have at most two children.
Three order B tree means each node can have at most three children.
Right?
You can have any number of this m m order.
So you can have, let's say five order B tree means you can have at most five children.
Okay.
And m minus one keys per node.
So now here, if you see that when I say that let's say three order B tree.
So let's say this is the three order B tree.
So it can have three children.
So in one node.
So in the three order B tree a one node can have three minus one m minus one keys.
Right.
So three minus one two.
So it will have one key here one key here right.
And it will have pointers here.
So this is a pointer.
This is a pointer.
So this pointer will point to this child node.
Let's say this is key one.
This pointer will point to this pointer child node two.
And let's say this is key two.
And this pointer will point to this one.
So in one node if in three order B-tree you can maximum have m minus one.
So three minus one two keys here and three pointers.
And each three pointers can point to a child.
So now you can say that hey what this three pointers generally signifies.
So let's see that we'll come to that part.
So now let's say that I'll totally show an example how it will become totally clear.
Let's store the below data in a three order B-tree.
So three order B-tree means it will have how many keys?
M minus one three minus one, two keys.
So I have here.
Key one.
Ki one and Ki two and it will have three pointers.
Pointer one.
Pointer two.
Pointer three.
So now here if you see that this pointer one left one so left one is like always point to the child
node which is less than this ki less than this ki.
And the right one is like greater than equals to this one.
So this pointer one will be whatever the child it will point to.
All its data would be less than this ki.
And whatever this pointer to which is on the right side of this ki, whatever the child it will point
to, ultimately all its data could be greater than equals to this ki, right?
So similarly for this ki two, this pointer two is it's at left side.
So whatever the child it will point to it will have a data less than ki two only.
And this pointer will have a whatever the child it will point to.
It will have data greater than equals to right.
So that's why here we have two keys three pointers.
So that's how one node can have three childs.
That's why three order maximum three child you can have right now let's see an example.
Let's understand with an example.
It would be super clear.
So don't worry about till now what we have uh understand about this uh DB right.
Pages and all.
So we will come back to again and everything will start making the dots clear.
But keep that till in your back of your mind that whatever we have is known till now.
Okay.
So now let's say we want to store this data into a B-tree.
Okay.
So I am using a three order B-tree okay.
So how many so understand this.
This line is a pointer.
Let's say this is one pointer two pointer and third three pointer and two nodes m minus one nodes.
So two nodes.
So this is the nodes slots I have.
So first I want to store nine.
So I have a key.
So this is the key one.
So I have a space.
So I have stored a nine here okay.
Now I want to store the data 33.
So it always maintain the sorted data I have a space in this node itself right.
So I have stored in the sorted order 33.
So both my keys are now full.
So it also has the data.
This also has the data.
Currently these pointers are pointing to nothing.
This is pointing to nothing.
Now I want to store 75.
So where I would store now because in my node because I'm creating a three order tree.
So in the three order I can only hold two nodes.
Two keys.
Now where I would store 75.
So now what it will do is that in the sequencing order it is like nine 3375.
So what it will do is so what it will do is it take the middle one and take it to the parent.
Right.
So now what I have done is I have created a new node from the middle one, from the middle one of this
three and make it to the parent of this.
So now 33 now 33 left pointer points to this 33 right pointer will point to this.
So left pointer means less than 33.
Right pointer could have like greater than equals to 33 data.
It will hold Okay, so till now it's all clear.
And this is how the data will look now.
Now we want to store 41.
So 41 where we will store.
So it will first check at the 33.
41 is greater than 33.
Yes.
It goes to the right side.
Now here if you see that here 75.
So 41.
So it will sort this.
So it will do 4175 and it will see that yes, there is a sufficient space.
Right.
So it will store it.
So this is how it will get stored after 41.
Right.
Because 41 is greater than 33.
It goes to a right side from the pointer.
And then it is stored in a sorted manner.
And it has two nodes we can keep.
So it's okay.
Now we want to insert 98.
So 98 is greater than 33.
It goes to the right hand side.
Now it wants to store over here.
So now again, 41, 75, 98, in a sorted form.
But again, we can't store three keys because it's a three level, three order B-tree.
We can only store two.
So what it will do is we will take the mid one and take it to the parent.
So its parent is 33.
There is a space.
So it will store there and 75 left will point to 41 and its right will point to 98.
So this one is like less than data 75.
This one is greater than equals to 75.
It will point two.
Now we want to insert 214.
Now I think you got the point right.
What we are doing.
So 214 it will check uh where it will go.
It will say that okay it is greater than 75.
So it will goes here greater than equals to 75.
It will go here.
There is already a slot empty, so it will put it here in the sorted manner.
214.
Now let's say we want to insert 126 126 is greater than 75.
It goes to its right.
Right.
And uh 98 217.
So this is the sorted how it would look like.
But it breaks the B-tree because we can't store three nodes, only two nodes, two keys we can store.
So this has to be mid one.
After sorting it has to take out.
So now it has to takes to the parent.
So 3375 126 126 left will point to this 98.
Its right will point to 214.
But here if you see that this parent itself will get break now because we can't store.
Three 3375 126 we can't hold it.
So this further has to be taken out a mid 175.
Now it should have goes to its parent.
So there is no parent.
We created a new node.
7575 left will point to 3375.
Right pointer will point to 126.
33 left is already pointing to nine.
It's 33, right already pointing to 41.
So it is like this.
So you got it right.
How B-tree is stores the data in a sorted manner.
And plus it can we can construct array or m order of b-trees.
Right.
So let's say now I'm storing 55.
55 is 55 is less than here.
It is greater than this.
It will go here.
There is a free slot 41 free slot was there.
So it will store the 55 here.
Similarly for 72, I think you can do now yourself that it will come here, but it will break, it will
divide 55, it will take it to the parent and how it will look like.
So this is how B-tree works, right?
So now you know that balance tree.
This works.
I might have explained faster because you can learn this data structures more in depth or you can implement
it.
But without understanding this indexing understanding the indexing would be incomplete.
So b b plus tree is exactly the same as B-tree, with additional feature that child nodes are also linked
to each other.
So in the B plus three it has additional feature that this all child nodes are linked to each other.
So that's okay if you understand the B-tree B plus tree is also exactly the same.
So now let's come back again to our DBMs.
DBMs is using the B+ plus three to manage its data page.
Because I told you that for one table, if it is, let's say one lakh rows, it can have so many data.
Page data.
Page one.
Data.
Page two.
Data.
Page 100, let's say.
And inside each data page there will be hundreds of rows.
So there might be some kind of ordering right.
How to order those.
Right.
So that's where we that's where B plus tree comes into the picture.
DBMs uses B plus three to manage its data page and rows within that pages.
How?
Okay, so just have this like it is using the B-tree.
Exactly the same, only with slight differences.
References.
The root node or intermediary node holds the value, which is used for faster searching the data possible
that value might be deleted from the DB, but it can be used for sorting the tree right?
Leaf node actually holds the indexed column value.
Don't worry, I'll tell you what I mean to say that how what Dbms's do.
We will see that.
So what I mean to say is that here is.
So here when we are maintaining the B+ tree, the ultimately the leaf node, this leaf nodes actually
holds the index values.
So let's say this is the column in this column I am.
This is I want to put an index.
So this is the index column.
So what is the index value.
1925 3017 615.
So these leaf node are actually the one which holds this index values.
The root node and the intermediate node.
This root node and intermediate node might store some data, let's say 32, which might even not even
there.
Earlier it was there, but it might have deleted.
It's not even there now.
So it is possible that it might be present here into the root node or intermediate node, because they
just help us to do a faster searching, go left, go right and all.
But this leaf node actually holds this current values of the column which is index.
Right.
That's what I meant to say.
Okay.
So now let's see how DBMs is actually using B+ tree to maintain the data pages and indexing.
Now let's say this is the table Very basic table.
Right.
How many rows?
123.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Seven rows are let's say row one.
Row two to row seven.
Right.
And we have two.
Column.
Column one.
Column two.
Very basic table.
Now I have put an index on employee ID I have put an index on this employee ID.
So we know that whenever we are putting an index now DBMs will apply B plus three on it.
Apply what B plus three on it to to manage this data.
How.
Right.
So exactly the same way which we it has done exactly the same way.
It will do this.
So now this is the column where I have put the index.
Now it will read this 19 2530.
So now it will start creating a B-tree out of it.
Right.
So what?
Before even so don't look at this pointer now.
Right.
I will explain you.
But now see this first is 19.
So you know that I am still using the three order.
So in three order means how many one node how many keys you can store M minus one which is two right.
So and there how many pointers would be there.
Three pointers would be there.
And two keys I can store.
So 19.
So in the key one I have stored 19 okay.
Don't forget about this pointer.
Now this pointing to the data page and all.
Forget about this.
Let's first focus on this construction of a B-tree.
The second is 25.
So now the second row is coming 25.
So the key to was empty.
So I have put 25 into this part.
Third one is 30.
So now if I put 30 here it will break because it's a three order tree.
In one node you can have only two keys.
You can't put 30.
So you have after sorting whatever the mid one is you have to take it to its parent.
So it will look like this.
So there were no parents.
So I created a new node.
I put 25 there.
25 now left pointer will point to 19.
And its right pointer will point to this node which holds 2530.
So now this is the first difference.
You should notice I told you right in the DBMs when it used B+ tree leaf node actually holds a index
column value.
These are the index column values right.
So leaf node Stores it.
The left pointer holds less than 25.
Right pointer stores greater than equals to 25.
So here if you see I have put the 25 here also I have put the 25 here also because in the leaf node
itself we hold this value.
In future it is possible that 25 row is deleted.
So I might delete this but this could still be there.
This is an intermediate node.
This is just for faster searching.
Anything comes here goes to right this right you will find values greater than equals to 25.
But this does not signify that this is the index column value in the DB which is stored.
No okay.
Got it.
So.
This 25.
Right.
We have to put greater than equals to 25.
So we are restoring the 25 right.
So 25 would be stored here.
And 30.
So in a sorted manner then what we have to store 17.
So in this 17 where it will go it is lesser than 25.
It goes to the left side of it, 17 is lesser.
So it will go to this.
There is already one space present, so it will store in a sorted manner.
So 17 first 19.
Later after that six where the six will go.
So six is lesser than 25.
It will goes there.
Now there is no child.
So generally six would be in the first of six, 17, 19 sorted manner.
But again three keys we can't store over here.
We have to now divide, take a bit one.
Take it to the parent who is the parent 25.
So it will in a sorted manner 1725.
2517 left will point to.
16.
17.
Right.
Because this is a still have the index value.
Right.
So it will point to 17 and 19 greater than equals to 1717 and 19 and 25.
Right will point to it's 2530.
So you see that three child it has currently each node.
Then we want to store one.
So one is uh less than 17.
It goes to left.
So there is one space.
So it is stored in a sorted manner one six.
Similarly the five so the five lesser than this it goes here.
So generally the five should be here in between of one and six.
But it will break.
So three keys we can't have it.
So it should goes to the parent right.
If five goes to the parent, the five left would become one five right.
Greater than equals to five.
When it's a key also.
So five should also be there five and six.
But at the parent level you can't have three nodes right.
So again the mid one five 1725.
Again it has to go to the top.
So it's hold five.
It's right.
Hold 25.
Now here if you see that I am not putting 1725.
Right.
Because this is just an intermediate node.
Intermediate node I told you that it is not index column index values.
Column index values are only the leaf right.
So I am only changing the intermediate node.
It's going top.
So that's why I don't have to put 17 here because it's not index column index value.
So 17 right will point to 25.
And this thing Interesting.
So it will be.
So this B tree is constructed.
So now here if you see that at the bottom this bottom part this bottom part this is now sorted.
So here we have a mixed data.
But bottom what we have now of this B tree is
156 1719 2530 C sorted.
Right.
Now we understand that okay.
How whenever we make any column index, whenever we make any column index DBMs do B plus three on it,
but shreyansh how the data pages are created.
Now how it gonna link because Cause you told that one table can have 100 of data.
Page data.
Page one.
Data page 100.
How those gonna manage.
Right.
So because these are actually has the row.
So what till now I have understood is okay DBMs has so many data pages data page one.
Data page two.
Like this.
Each data page is stored in a data block.
And one data block can have many pages like page one.
Page two.
Data block can have certain, let's say page five, page six something DBMs maintains the mapping of
page.
Page one, block one, page two.
Let's say again block one.
Like this it mapping it does.
I know that whenever any column is indexed right, it maintains a bee tree.
You now understand how bee tree is constructed, so that the data of this column is now in the sorted
manner, in a sorted manner.
But now we need to connect the dots.
So now bee tree exists.
I understand this, I know data pages, I know data block.
But what is the dots connecting to all of this.
Now let's understand this.
Okay.
Now let's understand this.
Our table has empty and we are doing inserting the row from the start.
Right.
So now let's say we have make this column indexed.
And now only first row is inserted 1981 this is the row I told you now that first what DBMs will do.
It will create a B+ tree right for this data also, so it will put 910.
Now remember in DBMs with this key it will also hold one more pointer value.
Or you can say that the pointer with this key is which ultimately points that this belongs to which
data page this 19 is stored in which database.
So now let's say I told you that this is the first time we are creating a table.
This is the first row.
So data page is currently empty.
So I created a data page one and stored one row 19 E one and stored put a pointer here that okay this
19 is pointing to this data page one.
And let's say this data page can only hold three rows can only hold three rows okay.
So when I put 19 So DBMs ultimately actually this is just our representation.
DBMs what ultimately has done is it created a data page one stores in this 19 E one row.
It created a B-tree on this index column.
It also maintaining the index put a 19 with this 19.
It also maintains one more pointer that this 19 row belongs to this data page.
And also this data page ultimately has to be stored in some memory or data block.
Let's say it is stored in one.
So it is also now storing this data page one data block stored in one.
So this is the data page one in the disk.
Okay.
So now second row is inserted.
So when second row is inserted it is inserted where in the data page first.
So data page second row is inserted because data page can hold three rows.
It is only the second row it is inserted properly.
Now it will update its indexing because new row is inserted right?
It has to update it indexing.
So it will check that okay one node is free, one key is free.
So it will put 25 here and also manage one more pointer with it.
And this pointer that 25 is stored in where data page one only it put this pointer in which data page
this 25 holds.
This record holds right till now database is in data block one only now 30.
So when 30 is stored.
So first it will stored in the data page one only right.
So because it has the space right.
So you can or you can say that first what it will do is it will try to see that which data page it has
to pick.
Right.
So one more question.
It has to comes to your mind that, hey, if there are so many databases already exist, and when you
inserting a new row, let's say we are inserting 30.
This is data page one, data page two, data page 100.
Which data page to pick and insert.
Which data page right?
This is a very interesting question that whenever you insert a row which data page you will insert it
how DBMs knows it.
So this is how it knows it through B-tree only.
So when inserting a 30.
So first it will goes that tries to insert a 30 into the.
Tree B-tree.
So it will see that okay it will try to construct a tree.
You already know that how we did it.
So ultimately it gonna be look like 19 and here 2530.
So what it will see is that, hey, my nearest index is stored in which data?
Page 25 was stored in data page one.
So what it will do is DBMs will try to load check the data page one.
Right.
So from its data page one memory it will check out its mapping database one.
It is there in the data block one it will load it right.
And what it will put is this row and put it back into the data block.
Right.
And one more pointer it will store with 30 is that it is stored in data page one.
Got it.
We will see one more example.
Now let's say 17 I want to store now which data page.
So let's say if you have so many databases which data page it has to pick how it will determine.
First it will go into this B-tree.
It will try to find out the correct logical sequence of this 17.
So 17 is less than 25.
It goes here there is a space available.
So it will be stored here.
Now it will check its neighbor index that which database it is stored and it pick one of the very uh
you can say that one of the data page.
So 19 is stored there.
So 19 is stored in data page one.
Right.
So it will see that okay let me pick also data page one.
So what it will do is DBMs will pick the data page one.
So data page one it knows that it is stored in data block one.
It will hit the goes to the memory loaded from the data block one.
It loads the data page one.
Now in the data page one we already know that it is full three data it already has.
It cannot insert 17 now what to do now?
What it will do is.
DBMs will do page splitting.
Page splitting.
So now in the page splitting it will split or create one more page.
So it will create new page.
Page two.
Right.
And it will split the data.
So earlier page one has 19 2530 now 17.
It has to store.
And now it will just split the data.
So now let's say in page one it puts 1719 rows data.
And in the page two it put rest of the data whatever the page one.
So page one has this three data right 19 2530.
So whenever it pick a particular page so it picked page one.
Page one has no space.
So now the page splitting happen.
So in the page splitting a new page is constructed.
And it divide the data of the page one plus this new data.
Right.
So 1719 I have put into page one and 2530 I have put here in the page two.
Right.
It can be anything depending upon the DBMs and it will update the pointer.
So now 17 will point to that.
It is in page 119.
It will update its pointer that it is also in page one.
Now it will update the pointer 25 is present into page 230.
It updated that it now at present into page two.
Earlier 30 was present into page one.
So it has to update the pointer.
So it will update the pointer that this index value 30.
It's all corresponding data is present into page two.
And also it will maintain a mapping that hey this page two is stored in let's say data block one itself.
Okay.
Now what data we have to stored after 17, let's say six.
So it will try to insert a six.
Six will go here.
Okay.
So first it will try to identify its correct logical location.
Okay.
So it will find out its that okay 17 has to be go up it it find out its correct location.
Now it will check its nearest neighbors nearest index in which database it has.
So nearest its all are linked in B plus three I told you right.
So it will check that okay this 17.
This 17 is stored in page one.
So it what it will try.
It will try to insert the six into page one.
So DBMs will load the page one.
So from the physical memory it goes to a data block one loads the page one.
Page one has.
Now these two records it will insert.
The page one already has 17 E4 19, E1.
It will store the six also because three we can store, so it will store six and six.
Data is e5 e5 right.
And it will update the pointer of this to that.
It is stored in page one.
Similarly for one also.
So ultimately once goes here.
Now here can you tell me one when it goes to the one one will see its to its neighbor.
Hey which database you are stored in six will say that hey, I am stored in data page one, so DBMs
will try to insert the one into also into the data page one.
So it will load the data page one.
It can easily load it that it has the data.
Page one is stored in block one.
So now it will restore page one.
Page one already has three rows.
It is totally full now 17, 19, six, 17, 19, six and its data e4, e1, e5, e4, e1, e5.
Some data is already there.
Now it try to insert one, but you can't insert one, right?
It's already full.
So what will happen now?
Page is splitting so it will create a new page.
So page two was already there.
So it will create let's say page three.
It will now split the data.
So let's say it's 1719.
It will keep here and it will put let's say one and six here.
One and six here.
Right.
And it will update the pointer.
So one is now pointing to page three.
Six is also now pointing to page three.
It has to update the pointer.
Earlier six was pointing to page one.
Now it has two.
After splitting six has to points to page three.
Right.
And also it will add a new mapping also that.
Page one is there in block one.
Page two was there in block two.
Block one.
Now it will have the let's say page three goes into let's say block two somewhere while storing into
the memory.
It knows that in which block it goes.
So it does the mapping now does everything making sense to you that how everything is linked.
Right.
One thing I still haven't told you about this offset array.
How this offset array is used.
I will tell you when I tell you about clustered non-clustered, but till now tell me that in the comment
section.
Is it clear to you I'm going very slow?
You know right how the table data is actually stored in a page.
There can be this page ultimately gets stored into data blocks.
So DBMs has to maintain the mapping page versus block right.
Then for indexing B plus three I think it should be clear to you.
We have seen with an example.
So whenever we insert a row it first put its logical ordering into the B-tree, determine the best page.
It has to be stored because there can be so many pages.
Determine the best page where this data has to be stored, right?
So we have seen an example that where the logical ordering is it.
Check its neighbor and try to load that page and see if I can, if that can be accommodated in that
page.
If not, page splitting happen whenever.
Page splitting happen, a new page is created and it just split the data.
Right?
And it has to update the pointers also.
It might be possible that earlier this.
A neighbor node 25.
Let's say it was storing into page one.
But after splitting 25 goes into page two.
So this pointer has to be updated.
And whenever any new page is stored, when whatever the data block is ultimately inserted, DBMs has
to maintain the mapping.
Clear.
Till now.
Cool.
Now let's come back to the indexing part.
Hey, what is the two type of indexing?
Clustered and non-clustered.
Now I know that.
What is how indexing how DBMs actually does the indexing.
But what are these two type of indexing.
So see first let's understand the indexing.
Cluster indexing says that order of rows inside the data page match with the order of the index.
Order of rows inside the data page match with the order of the index.
Let's see with an example what I'm trying to say.
So what?
What?
So let's say this is the table
1452ACBD.
And this is the address.
Okay.
So I told you at first that in the data page, whatever the sequence in which the rows are inserted
into a table, generally in that order, only the rows are inserted into a page only.
Right.
So if you are creating a employee ID one.
So here in the data page the this row will come first after four, then five, then two.
Now let's say I have put an index over here.
Now you know that when you put an index DBMs will do B-tree on this index and it will have the sorted
one, two, four, five.
Now you know that right now one, two, four, five this at the base it would be sorted only.
And one will also hold a pointer to this.
So when we say that right one will hold a pointer to this one row.
How ultimately actually this one will hold point to pointer to this page in which this row is present
right now.
Here the sequence indexing sequences that one, two, four, five and in the page order is one, four,
five, two.
The way it is inserted, rows are inserted one, four, five, two.
But here you are saying that the order of rows inside the data page match with the order of the index.
That's what clustered indexing says how we maintain the order.
Because you are saying that the order of the rows which are inserted in a data page is depend upon how
we inserted actually.
Right.
So we inserted 1452.
So it is stored like this 1452.
But indexing on this column indexing is in sorted order.
So it should be 1245.
So the order of the rows should be one two, four, five.
How?
That's where the offset comes into the picture.
I told you that in offset it maintain an array.
Right.
And it has an array like zero, one, two, three.
So whatever the index, whatever the indexing or ordering is.
So indexing ordering is 1245 sequential.
So at index zero it would be it would point to employee ID one data.
So it will point to employee ID one data.
And then after that two.
So index one it will point to employee two data.
Two data.
So third would be four.
So in the next in the sequence of the array would be four.
So now you see that even though the data pages the rows inside the data pages are jumbled or depend
upon how the user might have inserted mixed mode after indexing whatever the sequence comes out.
The order is generally given by the offset.
So whenever the you will traverse this pages, you will traverse in this sequence of this offset.
So employ.
So at zeroth slot it is employ one then two, then four, then 51245.
Like sequencing.
Understood that the use of this offset it holds a pointer.
And that's where cluster indexing is that the order of rows inside the databases match with the order
of the indexing.
So it doesn't mean that this rows are sequencing is changed.
This offset is changed.
This offset array holds the data in this manner so that it maintain the indexing sequencing.
Okay.
So there can be only one clustered index per table.
Why?
Because you can create an order of rows based on one index only.
Right.
So now let's say this is employee.
This is employee ID let's say name.
Can a clustered index can be made on two employee ID and name a c d b.
Let's say index is let's say for this a b c d right.
But in the clustered index the order has to be maintained.
So order can be maintained either through this or through this.
So that's why they're in a DB.
In a one table there can be only one clustered index.
So what column can be a clustered index.
So the it give a prime first priority to the primary key.
So in this table let's say if I have created a employee ID as a is a primary key.
DBMs used is as a clustered key, and whenever it use it as a clustered key, it will sort the data
pages based on that one, whatever the index comes.
So based on this clustered key, it creates a B-tree B+ tree and whatever the B+ tree.
Ultimately the index sequence comes.
The data pages also it will insert in the same manner like not this offset the offset it will maintain
in the same manner.
Right.
So first priority it will go to the primary key.
If manually.
You have not specified any clustered key, then DBMs look for primary key which is unique and not null
and it is used as clustered key.
But let's say your table doesn't have primary key.
Then what?
What will happen?
How DBMs will create a B+ tree out of it.
When you don't have the primary key internally which is not visible to you.
DBMs create a new column and it is generally sequential incremental 1234567.
Right?
With every row you insert.
So it created as a clustered key and stored the data pages based on this.
So any any new row you will insert it will add.
So this is Autoincrement column.
It insert which is not visible to you.
It is used as a cluster key.
So it use that value in a B+ tree to determine which database to pick, where to put, what would be
the offset sequence for that page and all.
Now you can ask that, hey, what if, let's say I have a big table, I have, let's say uh, 1 million
rows.
But I haven't defined the primary key.
There is no primary key.
So what happened would be DBMs internally creates a new Autoincrement column and does the B-tree out
of it and maintains everything it maintains.
Page one, page two, page 1000, data block one, data block two.
Anything.
Whatever the mapping it has been doing, it is doing even the rows ordering.
Also it is doing.
But now you can ask that hey, what if after now I added a primary key and make one column as a primary
key?
So now as soon as you make a primary key, I told you this will get priority.
So now DBMs has to do lot of work.
It has to do regenerate this B+ tree.
It has to update all the pointers now based on this new index column.
It has to update the pointers.
It might have to load so many data pages out of the block.
Reshuffle the rows right.
So lot of work DBMs has to do, but everything has to be changed now based on this column indexing.
Okay, so that's what I did.
If a table there is no primary key then internally it creates a hidden column which is used as a cluster
index.
This column just increases sequentially and guaranteed unique and not null.
So cluster index you already got it right.
It actually.
Based upon this column, which is you can say that the primary key column, the primary key column,
which is always generally considered as a cluster key.
It orders your rows and pages based on that, then you can say that.
Hey, what is non-clustered key?
Okay.
Cluster key.
Take care of primary key.
But you remember we have so many other keys also.
Secondary key.
Composite key.
What about those.
So let's say that I have a scenario where this name can be used a lot to query.
So it is better to put the indexing on it also.
So non-clustered is like I can put indexing or you can say that non-clustered indexing I can put on
this name secondary index.
So on the name also I can put an index.
Let's say I'm putting an index on name also.
But now this name would not be considered as a primary key.
Or it's a secondary key let's say.
So whenever you are creating a secondary key composite key right.
Ultimately it is doing non-clustered indexing.
So what does it means that.
So now let's say I'm doing name.
So based on that B plus three on the name, let's say it is able to maintain certain sequence that this
is A.
This is B.
Let's say this is D.
This is D okay.
This a.
Now.
What.
So now two things.
So it will again this a data is stored in where let's say in page one.
So it will point to the.
Page one.
This B is stored in somewhere.
So.
But here if you see that the ordering of this offsets are not based on this.
First correct the ordering of this I would say that the ordering of the rows does not depend upon the
secondary index.
Second, there can be.
Many secondary index or composite index.
So I can have address also as an index.
So it will create one more B-tree and stores the data and just maintain the pointer to the database.
Right.
So we have only one clustered index.
This clustered index actually drives this ordering of this row.
And we can have many secondary index or the non-clustered index as your name says that clustered you
are not clustering the rows and pages right.
So we can have many non-clustered index or secondary index.
Right.
And that's one of the reason when somebody asks like you should always create index, you can say that
we should not like I have ten columns, let's say column one, column two, column three, column four.
You might be asking that, hey, Shreyansh.
Why can't.
So this is primary key.
Why can't I put this?
This I will also make secondary index.
This is also I will make secondary index.
This is also I will make secondary index over.
Like whatever the query will come it would be faster.
Now you understand at least grasp that there is a overhead.
So for each secondary index you have to maintain a B+ tree for it.
Now if there are 1 million rows in this table, let's say 1 million rows means in a B+ tree.
You are creating so many keys here, right?
You can just consider the amount of memory it also required.
Right?
Let's say if you have three secondary index.
So means you are creating three B+ tree like a non-clustered index one for this secondary index for
this column two.
You might be creating another B+ tree for non-clustered index or indexing.
You might be doing for column three.
For again 1 million record.
Like this.
Now assume that any row.
Particular row is deleted.
You have to update the pointers.
Also of this.
You have to delete that row.
Or because this is the leaf node has the index value.
You have to delete that node also.
And when you delete it you might have it might be possible that you have to update the pointer also.
So that's why it is always say that create an indexing carefully.
Fully.
It is not easy because there is a lot of overhead comes in.
What are the overhead?
First thing is this B plus tree also needs memory.
So you have to worry about the memory also because this is also ultimately going to store in the disk
only right.
And IT DBMs.
Also whatever the data it stored, it also stored into a pages which is known as index pages.
And this index pages are stored in disk only.
So there is a overhead that it maintain the index pages.
So because I told you that 1 million notes it created definitely 1 million note cannot comes into one
page.
It it might have to create so many index pages.
Also index pages also comes into so many uh, let's say block Block five.
Block six, block seven.
So now you see the overhead which DBMs has.
It has to maintain the index pages.
Also index pages mapping.
Also it has to maintain the data page where the data is actually stored.
And it's mapping also blocks.
So just creating a secondary index composite index and indexing will just create an additional overhead.
And any addition any.
Because any time you add a new element you have to update your clustered index, the primary key one,
then all the secondary.
You also have to update and the update.
I already told you page split can happen.
When the page split happen it might divide right.
So index has to be updated.
So I think it's pretty much clear right.
So now you know that what all things has to be done.
So whenever, whenever you have to.
It looks simple, right?
So whenever you have to insert one row new row what all things it does.
Right.
It first find an index page.
Right.
What would be the first step?
It first.
Find the.
Index page right.
So in from the index mapping index page one.
Index page two.
Let's say block one block two.
So it will first load the indexes pages into the memory.
Right.
Because index is pages has your B-tree data combination indexing right.
So second what it will do is uh or you can say that.
So let's say or I would say that instead of inserting, let's say you want to search because we are
talking about search query.
So let's say you want to search a data with 35.
Let's say I'm saying ID.
So first it has to load the index page.
Index page is loaded from this data blocks.
Now from this index pages it will run the B+ tree.
It will traverse this B+ tree to find which data page this 35 has.
So maybe you have a data page.
This index has the data.
So now let's say this 35 ultimately points to a particular data page.
Data page five let's say.
So now from our second step is using the B plus three and find the data page.
Third step use that data page.
Find the.
Data.
Block it.
Maintain a mapping.
Write data page.
Which data block?
That's it.
Two.
So now it can directly goes to that data block.
Load that data block in memory.
Write fifth read the data.
Right.
So now even if there are hundred thousands of data block, it doesn't have to worry.
It can directly goes to that particular data block.
Okay.
So this is check it out one more time.
It would be little bit clear.
But this is so many things happens right in the background.
And we can discuss more if you have doubt in the comment section.
And even if you want it I can have one live session where we can discuss more.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
