# Design Idempotent POST API || Handle Duplicate Request by Idempotency Handler

Hello.
Hey guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
And today we are going to design a handler.
Very very important question.
And if you see our high level design roadmap.
So all this green tick one which we have completed.
And currently today we are looking into the handling part.
So I am not making it right for now because concurrency handling another important topic is left.
So I will cover it into the next video upcoming videos.
But let me cover the handling part today.
So this is very, very important question and has been recently asked in Singapore based company top
product based company.
Right.
So let's focus on this question now.
First of all, before even jumping into handling, I want to differentiate between the order potency.
Versus concurrency.
So that no one should get confused between these two.
And then we will focus on this one at potency today.
So see what do you mean by concurrency.
So concurrency is like you have one resource.
You have one resource and there are multiple.
You can say that users trying to access that resource, for example in a book might show book might
show movie ticket app.
You are trying to book a seat, and many people are trying to book that seat in a movie theater.
So that is concurrency problem, right?
But what is it then?
It helps us to take care.
Of duplicate request.
Duplicate request.
Now what does it mean?
Now let's go deeper into Idempotency.
But I think you should not mix it with concurrency.
Concurrency is different.
Now let's jump into the dependency.
So what is dependency?
Say it enables client to safely retry.
A client can retry many times safely without worrying about the side effect of an operation.
Let's say there are many operation.
For example operation like let's say adding an item into the cart.
Let's say you are trying to add an item into a cart.
So this is one operation.
It enables client to safely retry an operation.
So let's say you are trying to do this post request add an item into cart.
You can retry any time.
You can retry any time without worrying about the side effect.
So generally, what is the effect of this operation?
It will create a row that yes, I want to add an item into this cart, but if I retry again this is
duplicate request I am retrying.
Again, it should not create another row.
It should not create another row because it's a duplicate request.
Right.
So that's what its definition says.
It enables client to safely retry an operation.
You can retry as much as you want, but in DB there will be only one row.
And but you can safely retry as much as you want.
So that's what is it is that's what capability Hydra handler providers understood the definition properly.
Now let's jump into the little bit problems and how we require to solve okay.
So first thing by default.
By default, get put.
Delete.
These are already impotent in nature, right?
These are idempotent in nature.
Whereas Post request is not idempotent.
And we have to make it ten.
Okay.
So what does it mean by get put delete.
So let's say you make a get request right.
You are client.
You are making a Get call to server.
Now any time you call get request get Get.
Even though it is a duplicate, will it make any side effect on the DB?
Right?
No, it will not create any side effect on the DB.
It will just retain whatever the data it has.
It will just return it.
Right.
So it is not causing any side effect.
What about put.
So again you have a client.
You have a server you called a put request.
Okay.
Update uh name from let's say SJ to let's say I'm trying to update my name from SJ to Shreyansh.
So first time let's say it changed.
It changed right.
It changed the DB from SJ to Shreyansh.
Now if I call put request multiple times put put put many times duplicate comes and everything.
Say update name from SJ to SJ to What will it do?
Anything.
Any side effect on the DB?
No name is already changed to Shreyansh, right?
So there would not be any cause you will do your DB.
Whatever the status, it will not change, right?
So it is idempotent no matter how many times you retry it, your status or db operation will not cause
any side effect, right?
Let's understand now.
Post.
As I give you an example, when I mentioned right post is not adopted by nature.
What what I think you already know by by now is how why post is not adopted by nature.
So you make one request, let's say payment Shreyansh is making a payment to, let's say Hardik, let's
say ₹10.
So it is a first time.
So let's say first time payment happen right.
So Shreyansh got debited like ₹10 and Hardik received plus ₹10.
But let's say because many duplicate requests comes in as two.
Hardik ₹10 again.
So two Hardik ₹10 again as J two Hardik ₹10 again.
So what will happen because of this post request?
Because post tendency of nature is to create a new row.
Create a new resource.
So it will create another time.
S j -₹10.
Hardik plus ₹10 for this one.
Again s j -₹10.
Hardik plus ₹10.
Like this.
So now if you know that for a for a payment system, this is a side effect.
So even if you retry multiple time, your DB should only have one record for this because these are
duplicate requests, it should not create multiple rows after multiple payments.
Similarly, the example previously I gave you of a add to cart.
You should only have only one item in a cart.
So these are the problems.
And that's what I told you by default.
Get put.
Deletes are already added.
You don't have to do anything in that, only for post APIs.
We have to bring the order potency nature to the post.
Okay, so there are two type of side effects.
One is sequential.
Another is parallel.
Okay, so let's understand this how the problem can come.
How duplicate can come.
Or I would say that how duplicate can come to duplicate.
For example this is client.
This is server.
Okay.
The first let's say trying client is making a post call.
I told you only with post we have an API.
Okay.
It make a post call.
Let's say add cart add item to cart.
Okay.
So now server started processing.
Server started processing.
But timeout happen.
It's happened.
Timeout.
But for client it's a timeout happened.
But server hasn't stopped processing.
So server is still processing.
Still processing.
And now it is processed.
Now it is processed okay.
So even though it is timeout server has processed the request.
It has processed the request properly.
but for client it's a timeout.
So it will retry.
It will do another post.
So now it's a duplicate request.
So it's a duplicate request.
Or you can say that retry because client got the timeout.
But now here if you see that server has already processed it right.
So now it's a duplicate request.
So we have to handle this.
So we have to take care of this scenario.
What is another scenario parallel one.
So again client.
Server.
So let's say client made post request.
And at the same time another request comes in here you see the sequential how the sequential happens
right after a timeout.
But the process has happened and then another come after it, but here.
What if two post requests come at the same time?
Both.
So this is the original.
And this is the you can say that the duplicate one.
Right.
But it coming at the same time.
It is possible maybe because of different browser.
Right.
And it may be going to different server.
There are multiple servers.
Maybe it's going to different machine itself.
Right.
So how to handle it.
How to handle only one request should be processed should be processed not two.
Okay.
So till now I think you are very much clear what is right.
What is its definition like out of this HTTP request get put delete post.
What are our already adopted in nature?
Why we need in post we have to handle the potency.
What are the various ways or use cases in which it is required?
Sequential, like this use case, and also in the parallel like this use case.
Right.
So now let's go to our.
Approach.
For.
Idempotency handling.
Now let's see this is very interesting part.
Okay.
So how do we handle idempotency in post request.
Answer is using.
Idempotent key.
Hey then you can ask hey what is idempotent key.
Don't worry about it.
I will tell you everything just for now.
Assume.
Assume that key is something unique.
It's a unique.
Or you can say that it's a Uuid.
Universal unique ID means at a universal level, this ID would be unique.
Duplicate ID is not possible.
So let's say it's any Uuid universal unique ID, any unique ID.
So we with that and we can treat it as a key.
And with id potency key we can handle it both these scenarios.
How.
Now before jumping into the how, let me tell you the few agreement.
There are two agreements which we have with the client agreement with client.
The first agreement with that client is client should generate the ID key.
Generate the key key.
The client should generate it.
Second for each operation For each operation.
New hydro potency key should be generated for each different operation.
You can say that for each different operation, new hydro potency key should be generated.
So these are the two agreement between clients and servers.
And the solution is depend upon this.
So now let's come with the flow how hydro potency key solves this problem right.
Then I will tell you how it can be enhanced to solve the parallel.
Okay.
Now understand this one first.
Let's say this is client.
So as part of first what it will do agreement is client should generate the Idempotency key.
So let's say a user is hitting a client.
Let's say some Post request, any Post request, let's say add item to cart, add item to cart.
It's using the client application.
Now the client what it first will do it will generate.
Either key.
Idempotency key.
Because this is a new operation which is user is trying to do.
And first step what client will do is it will generate an idempotent key.
Once the key is generated what would be the second step?
The client will do right.
The client will set this auto key.
In the request header.
and it calls server.
So now it calls to the server.
So first client go and generated the key.
Key can be generated by universal unique ID.
There are many libraries available which you can generate universal IDs.
Plus you can also append operation here.
What is the operation.
So that also you can make uniqueness.
Plus sometime also you can add timestamp also.
So it depend upon client to client.
So that's why I'm not going deep into it because it depend upon client to client.
But the generic solution which we can say is universal unique ID because it's always a unique.
So now first client will generate an ID key.
Second it will set this ID key in the request header and calls the server.
Now server got the request server got this post API.
Add item to cart.
Okay, that's what customer wanted.
And in the header it got the arrow key.
In the header it got certain arrow key.
Let's say arrow key is something one.
It could be anything number.
Right ABC12567 thing okay.
What will server will do after this.
So server will first do validation.
It will do validation.
What validation it will do.
Server will validate if.
Key is present.
Is present or not.
If either key is not present not present in header then what else.
What error code will return HTTP 400, which means validation error, which means validation error.
400 means validation error.
So first thing which server will do is it will validate those dependency.
Key is set into the header of this request.
If it is not it will throw error.
If it is present yes okay.
Okay.
If it is present.
So currently forget about this duplicate sequential and all just considered one simple flow.
We are incorporating the key right?
Then I will tell you how it solves the sequential and how we can expand it to do the parallel.
Till now.
All clear a request come client generate a dependency key and passed it into calls the API for the server
and in the header it set the dependency key.
Now the server first does.
The validation does in the header key is present or not.
If it is not present, send the HTTP 400 request if it is present.
Write what it will do.
Fourth step server.
Will read this dependency.
Read this order potency key from DB.
So server will try to see a is order potency key is already present into a DB or not right.
So let's say this is the first time this is the original request.
So currently I'm saying this is an original request.
First time it is happening.
No duplicate no retry first time.
So this is a definitely a fresh order potency key right.
And definitely server will try to read this in order potency key from DB that okay.
Does this potency key is present into the DB or not.
If it is not present.
So here.
So.
If either.
Key.
Present in DB.
No, it is not present.
Then what it will do.
What it will do is fifth step.
It will.
Put an entry into the DB.
It will put an entry in DB.
Just consider that it is a DB one DB right where it has a key.
So here I will put what is the key here.
Now IK1.
So let's say key one it is generated.
So key it will put IK1 right.
And it will also have a status of this one.
So for now it will try to read the potency.
So it will put a status created something right.
So each key has a life cycle ID potency key has a life cycle right.
So first is like let's say created.
Or you can give me any name or acquired.
Right.
And after that it has changed to consumed.
Consumed.
Or we can also say that claimed and after once it is consumed or claimed it cannot be reused, right.
It cannot be reused.
So this is we have to identify we have to just remember.
So if it is not present into the DB it will put an entry into the DB that okay Idempotency key is one
and it is created currently created Okay.
What if a key is already present?
Yes.
This is also in step five.
Right.
So only two things are possible.
A key is already present.
Or if it is not present.
But first time I am telling you that it is an original request.
So definitely it will goes to the no path, right.
Because it is not there and it created it created an entry.
Okay.
So now what will happen after this one?
Let's say it put ten entry.
Now after this what it will do sixth.
If call or if operation.
Whatever operation.
What is operation?
Operation was to add an item in I add an item into the cart.
If operation is success means item is added to the cart, right?
So what it will do?
It will.
Consume or claim the key, right?
So now it will consume or claim the key and it will change.
The status of this is to what would be the status change of this would be.
To let's say anything.
Whether you want to consume or claim, let's say it's a consume.
It will change the status to consume and what output it will return.
HTTP 201 so C201 is means resource is created, operation is success and resource is created.
Resource is created here resource is created means item is added to the cart.
Item is added to the cart okay.
So that's what 201 is.
Operation is success.
Plus resource is also created.
Okay.
So this is the original request.
Now let's say a duplicate is coming.
Uh, let's say now duplicate request is coming.
Okay.
So now it's a duplicate request.
So now let's say this is this is the flow.
Original post is happened.
So let's say this is happened.
Right now assume that timeout happen.
But internally server has done all these things.
Internally server has done all the validation and it was not exist.
So it created a resource.
But what will happen is what timeout already happened.
So it couldn't send 201 to the client because client is already gone.
Timeout.
And now client has done the retry.
Now let's understand this use case.
Now client is sending a duplicate request.
Right.
So here it will get generated from here itself.
So here user is not involved in the duplicate.
The retry will happen from here.
So from here itself.
So now client is making a duplicate request retry or client is retrying.
So now it is retrying with the same key.
What was the dependency key IK one right.
The previously we choose IK one.
So now client is retrying with the same key.
Okay.
Server.
Got it.
Now server will validate is IK is present into the header.
Yes, it is present.
So it goes to the step four.
Now server will read the key from DB.
So it will goes to the DB and check.
Hey key one exists or not.
So from DB it will check.
Yes exist.
So now it will come to this path.
Exit?
Yes.
So now it will check.
Our key status.
Right.
So there can be only two type of status created or consumed.
Right.
So here.
It will check the status.
What is the status.
So one is created state and one is consumed state.
So if it is consumed means the previous request which has created this row is already completed.
Because consume can only be done when it complete the all the flow or the operation is success and resource
is created.
It consumed and sent to zero one so consumed it will happen when the previous operation original has
completed its task.
Right?
So here we send HTTP 200.
What does 200 means.
Previous request already completed and no resource created.
So as 201 says that resource is created two zero is that the request is successful.
Previous request is one request already completed but no resource created.
Okay.
So in this case we need to send HTTP 200 but status is created.
What does created means?
There is already one request which has created this row, but it is still in processing.
Still in processing.
So otherwise if process is complete it could change to consume.
But it hasn't done means still it is processing.
So it's kind of a HTTP 409.
It means Conflict it conflict with the request means it is already.
Some request is already processing.
It is not yet completed.
That's why state is created.
So it's at 409.
Hey, it's a conflict.
Some request.
Previous request.
Duplicate request.
Original request.
Already working, not completed.
So please wait.
You can retry later.
So.
Understood.
This is the flow for idempotent key.
So this one will be properly handled with it.
Right.
Because duplicate comes.
And whether it will get yes or no.
If it is a previous one is already completed then it will return HTTP 200.
Otherwise, if previous one is already working, let's say it is still working.
While the second request comes in, it will send 409 conflict.
Now the follow up question will come what about parallel?
What about parallel request?
What about parallel requests?
Now what about this use case?
What about this use case?
So now let's see here two requests coming in parallel right.
So now two requests are coming in parallel here.
But with the same idempotency key.
So somehow.
Somehow from client to server two request comes in with post add item and Hydro one.
Hydro one.
Similarly, post add item two request comes in by the client.
Maybe different browser or something.
Now what will happen?
Client received two requests.
Validation for both the requests.
It will go for the.
Let's say it's going parallelly.
So validation they both will pass because it is present into their header.
So it will goes to this fourth step.
Now let's say both Parallely will read the key from DB.
So now let's say it's an original request.
Currently DB is empty.
Currently DB is let's say empty.
So now what will happen.
So what will happen?
Server will read the key from DB.
Both the requests.
Let's say it is request one.
Request two.
So both request request one and request two.
Both will try to read the account from DB.
And they say that okay for both key is present.
No.
So both requests will come here.
Request one.
Request two.
Okay.
Come to this place.
And what will do is since it was not there in the DB, both will try to read and both will create it.
I created write and ultimately the call is success and it will consume it.
So now here, if you see that because of this parallel part, both will pass out this flow and two resource
will be ultimately created.
Add card.
Add card two add card will get success 201201.
And but this is an issue.
We told that it should be able to handle this parallel also.
Then what we can do solution is very simple and we already know it.
How to solve this part.
The answer is mutual exclusion the locking part.
So we bring a lock.
So we have to identify our critical section.
So our critical section is which one.
This one.
So this is our critical section.
This part.
So this part is.
Our critical section.
So only one thread can go.
One request can go request one or request two.
Now two requests cannot comes into this.
Only one request can come in and you know right.
Critical section.
There are multiple ways to achieve a critical section is uh, you know right.
Mutex semaphore.
Right.
You can put a lock on an ID right.
And then first what you will do is it has step acquire the lock and then release the lock.
And I think it similarly has like low lock unlock something like that.
So this is nothing but a mutual exclusion.
So only one request can goes into this.
So we can bring some mutual exclusion here, right?
We can use any algorithm.
Right.
There are multiple mutual exclusion algorithms already present.
So but the concept is we will use this is our critical section.
Now we will put mutual exclusion here.
Let's say mutex for example or semaphore or some certain let's say synchronize anything.
Only one request can go in right.
Or synchronize anything.
This is our critical section now.
Now it will only one request will go in and it will check server will read the account from DB.
It's not there.
It will write one Idempotency one request one return it.
Status is created.
Then what it will do is it will do the success operation and it will change it to consume and it will
return.
Now once it return, then request two comes into the picture and it will check.
Server will read the key from DB.
It is present.
Yes, it is present.
And either it will return 200 error code.
Consume write and it will ask customer that this is already success, right?
And it will say that it's a duplicate request.
So by putting a mutex or synchronize we can take care of the parallel request.
So before we are almost done I think it is clear to you right how we can handle the sequential and parallel.
So there is one follow up question happen on this.
So let's say there are multiple servers which are in different maybe GEOs or cluster.
And let's say this is client.
What if this request goes into duplicate different server.
Server one.
Server two different machine.
Post request post request at key one.
At key one but in different.
Right.
And let us say this is the DB.
They have their own different geos.
DB let's say for example, this is and internally they do uh copy.
Right.
What if this is kind of a structure how you will do this.
Because by the time they synchronize DB synchronize then this uh, reading the id from DB and all,
how it will work, how it will work because they are pointing to different DB.
They are totally different clusters, right?
How it will work.
So the answer is using cache.
So I will use a cache.
And you know right.
The cache synchronization is much much faster than DB.
It's in milliseconds.
And db could be in minutes.
The synchronization.
But cache synchronization is very much faster.
So we can put a lock all this thing into cache.
Right.
So always remember this follow up question.
If the interviewer might ask what will happen in your DB.
How you will different cluster different DB.
How you will maintain this synchronization that I read because you are storing the DB, then how you
will take care then answer is cache using a cache cache synchronization is much more faster kind of
a near real time, right?
So with that it will solve it.
And with that we are done with our idle handling.
I think it would be super clear to you.
And I'm telling you, this is very, very important from the concept building.
Right.
And your day to day operation itself and from the interview perspective.
So okay guys, see you.
And maybe with I will meet you guys soon with the next video.
And till then good luck.
Bye and good night.
