# Strategy Design Pattern (Behavioral Pattern)

Back to the channel.
And today we will see strategy design pattern.
So it's a behavioral design pattern.
And we know that behavioral is like more interested in how objects interact or communicate with each
other okay.
And it defines multiple algorithms, encapsulates their logic in dedicated class and enable changing
an algorithms behavior at runtime.
What does that mean?
So understand with this problem and solution.
And when we will read this definition again it will get more clear.
So see this problem.
First I have a class vehicle and it has a default drive capability.
Let's say normal drive capability.
Then I have multiple child class like sports vehicle off road vehicle passenger vehicles.
Or you can have further like goods vehicle.
So many child classes.
Now each child class can have their own drive functionality.
Either they can have the same default or they can change the drive capability what they want.
let's say sport, we can have sport drive capability.
Off road vehicle also has sport drive functionality.
Passenger is reusing the parent one normal drive functionality.
Okay, so one thing, one problem we can easily identify is that that there are so many child classes,
it is possible that there is a code duplication.
So in this case sports vehicle also need sports drive functionality.
Off road also needs sports drive functionality.
Okay.
So this is one problem.
Code duplication is there.
So that is one problem.
Code duplication.
Same sport drive functionality present into many sub classes.
And this is just one example.
So consider that you have 1015 sub classes.
So there is high chance that there is a code duplication.
And the second is tight coupling.
If in future we need to change the drive functionality to say off road vehicle, it is not possible
without updating the class.
Now let's say that today you have a sports functionality for this a sport vehicle.
In future, if you have to change this capability, would you be able to change it?
No.
You have already defined this sports capability here.
Similarly here for passenger vehicle, is it possible for you to change the behavior like once you define
it?
No.
You have to change the code.
So we have tight coupling here also.
So using a strategy pattern we can solve both.
So this is the UML diagram for it okay.
So here if you see the UML diagram we create a strategy.
And then we have a multiple concrete implementation.
So this strategy class or interface is nothing but like the algorithm here in the above problem.
What is the algorithm here.
Like this one.
This drive capability.
So some has normal drive capability.
Some has the sports drive capability like.
So I have created this strategy drive strategy as a separate interface.
and it has one abstract method drive.
Now we have multiple normal drive.
Its post drive.
And even in future if we support more, we can have that also.
And in the normal drive, yes, we have a complete functionality or algorithm for the normal drive capability
in the drive.
In this drive method we have the complete code for the sports drive functionality.
So this part is done.
Okay now we have a context.
So here in this context is our vehicle.
So now in this vehicle if you see that we are accepting the drive strategy dynamically.
So first of all how many different child classes of the vehicle has let's say I have a good vehicle.
I have an off road road vehicle, I have a sports vehicle.
Or let's say we can have more, let's say passenger vehicle.
So we have different child classes of this vehicle.
Now if you see one very important thing is that this child class Is telling what drive strategy they
need.
So when you are creating an object of goods vehicle, you can pass that whatever the drive strategy
you need, whether you want normal drive strategy or sports drive strategy or what.
Okay.
So it's dynamic now.
Okay.
So let's say today goods vehicle has normal drive strategy.
And in future you can change it.
You can when creating an object you can pass a sports drive.
That is also possible.
Similarly for off road, whenever you create an object of off road vehicle we can provide what's the
drive strategy we want whether we want sports drive, normal drive or some something else.
Okay.
And in future we can change it whatever we want and whatever the drive strategy you have, you just
call the drive method and that functionality will work.
So here, if you see the code, I created a new sports vehicle.
I am creating a sports vehicle and while creating an object I pass.
What is the strategy I wanted?
I want sports drive feature, I want this.
Okay, so now I created an object.
And once you have created the object when you call the drive okay.
So this is the default method when you call the drive, whatever the strategy you have chosen that drive
functionality would be invoked.
So here if you see that what we have done is we have separate out the algorithms okay.
And now because of that, it is possible that we can extend the new capability into the drive strategy
okay.
So independently it can scale.
And similarly independently we can scale the vehicles.
Also we can add more vehicles.
And also dynamically we can manage the strategy.
So we have removed the tight coupling.
And also we have removed the code duplication also.
Okay.
So very simple.
And you can say that very important design pattern.
If you have any doubt let me know.
We can discuss further by.
