# Thundering Herd Problem | Why Ticket Booking App goes down during peak traffic?

Hey guys, on this side.
And today I will be discussing in ten minutes the recent issue, which might happen with the ticket
booking application when they have opened the sale of a concert at 12 p.m..
Okay, the system goes down.
They haven't shared any RCA or any block.
But see, let's say that what issue could have happened and how it can be resolved.
So generally, if you see any application, we already have load balancer.
And let's say that we have multiple instances of our component or of our microservices.
In this case we have ticket service.
Let's say it's instance one, ticket service instance two, ticket service instance three.
Now any request which comes to the load balancer, it will divert the request either to one of the instance.
And each of this instance is Instances also safeguarding itself through a queue.
You know that thread pool executor.
Each application which we build builds upon its capacity.
We also configure the thread pool executor and the queue how much actually it can handle it.
So this is already we have right.
Okay.
So now what happened is there is a term called Thundering herd.
So in this problem what generally happen is at any particular instant right.
Let's say at this moment the bulk.
Or you can say that the bulk of request comes suddenly.
There is a huge spike in the traffic.
Okay.
That's where the term thundering herd.
Okay.
So what happened in this case is that might be at 12 p.m..
M when the sale has been started, the multiple requests came.
Okay, and it goes.
Load balancer work is to just distribute between this instances and each instances is now totally filled
each instance.
Q is totally filled and they are continuously working on to their full capacity.
Okay, now any more request is coming.
Definitely Q is full, all threads are busy, all threads are busy for all this thing and Q is also
full.
Definitely first.
There will be not entertaining any new request.
Right?
So what happening is.
New request got denied.
Okay.
Second problem which might have happened is retry.
Now all this request which got denied.
They are also getting retried.
Okay, so new request.
Plus retried one.
Now it is.
Keep on coming.
Okay so always remember also one more point.
Let's say that this request is there in the queue.
Okay.
Now when your system is working on a full capacity latency cannot be the same okay.
Latency increases when you have more threads.
Let's say that your thread is ten maximum thread is 100.
Now when the system is running on full capacity means all 100 threads are working, right?
Queue is totally full.
So this all things required memory.
Okay.
So means when your system is running on full capacity.
Latency also impacts and when the latency also impact.
This is also brings a cascading impact.
How?
Now let's say that the existing request is taking more time.
Earlier they used to get finished in 10s.
Now because of this, uh, resource limitation.
Right.
And huge request pile up and processing in parallel.
This ten second has been increased to 22nd.
And in this discussion I am saying that let's say that even the ten second got increased per request.
This can also result in a timeout of the existing requests which are processing.
Maybe the request which are waiting in the queue.
That might also get request timeout right.
Client haven't heard it back.
It is.
Just keep on waiting into the queue.
They also get retried.
So this retried request right?
This is one I think is a major issue which need to be handled properly.
Okay.
So this is one very important part.
So one question might be coming to our mind that hey if there are more requests definitely there should
be some auto scaling has happened.
Okay.
Yes auto scaling might have happened.
But here if you see when the auto scaling also has happened, will it be able to process any new request?
I doubt it.
Right.
This retry is something which is has the capability to spam everything.
Okay.
So now this retry request also comes to this load balancer.
And it also is assigning to this auto scale.
This will also get filled up right.
All the requests.
Now it is possible that the request which are here in this one it could also be here.
It could also be here, and it could also be here.
The retry request keeps on piling up.
So what?
What could be the scenario?
What can we do for this retry.
Okay.
So one is that.
Back off.
Or you can say that exponential back off.
So generally which is the formula is base into two raised to power n where n is the number of failures.
Where n is the number of failures.
So now let's say that request one comes.
Okay.
Uh so it is processed at let's say your base is -100.
So at the first, uh, first failure, the when the first failure happened, base is 100.
So this is retry one.
So two raised to power one one failure.
rate.
So it is happening at after weight of 200 millisecond.
Let's say the retry two means second failure 100 into two raised to power two 400 millisecond.
So like this.
So like this exponential back off is one strategy for the retry.
But again exponential backoff is not the foolproof solution.
There is also a situation when all the retry requests is retrying on the same time.
Generally, this is a common formula for the exponential backoff.
If all the retry requests are also using the same formula means they are keep on retrying at the same
time, which do not resolve anything, and again, they are keep on piling it up.
So another solution is like.
Exponential.
Back off.
Plus jitter.
Jitter.
When I say jitter, jitter generally means bringing some randomness, right?
So earlier formula was base into two raised to power n right.
So what jitter will do is that it it's its formula.
Is that minimum of.
Your let's say maximum time which you can wait maximum wait time.
Comma.
Some random from zero to let's say base into two raised to power n okay.
So now what it will do is whatever the exponential back off you are doing, do it.
But pick a random of zero to.
Let's say between this you are picking some random number okay.
And because of this exponential backoff, it will keep on growing.
So we have to keep a limit that they choose a minimum either the maximum wait time or this.
So this jitter is nothing but a bringing some randomness.
So it will bring randomness on this retry so that all should not retry at the same time okay.
This generally currently in this scenario these queues are working as a first line of defense which
I'm thinking can further help is our rate limiter.
So now let's say that here we have our application gateway.
And here I have a rate limiter.
Now this this would be our first line of defense right here.
Not this queues now.
So this rate of limiter let's say that I am using here token bucket algorithm.
Token bucket algorithm.
So this token bucket algorithm, you know.
Right.
Uh, let's say that in one minute, 1 million requests comes.
Let's say that or let's say that.
Not in one minute, let's say instantly now, now itself, 1 million requests comes with token bucket.
I have the capability that, hey, whatever the capacity of my system is, I will do some computation
and I will only make this much token available.
So it has token.
Only that much token would be available.
Only that much request will go to the next level, okay.
And others will wait in the queue over here or it will get rejected from here itself.
So here we are making sure that our systems are working fine existing.
They should not reach to their maximum capacity, where even the latency gets increased and even the
existing request is getting timed out.
We should not reach to that level, actually.
Okay.
And bring the, uh, some jitter in the retries.
And also here we can, uh, token bucket algorithm or through rate limiter, we can make sure that even
the instant burst come, can we spread it across like in a particular interval, let's say 0 to 1 minute.
Even the instant traffic come.
Can this instant traffic be distributed across a minute?
Okay, so rate limiter I'm thinking of plus for the retry.
I already told you that, uh, backoff plus jitter and definitely auto scaling should be there, but
yeah, will definitely look forward to the blocks and the actual root cause.
But please feel free to share your thoughts on this one.
What's your take on this recent issue?
