On this side.

Welcome back to the channel.

And today in Spring Boot we are going to cover actuator.

So let's start without wasting any time.

Actuator provide production ready endpoints to monitor and manage the spring boot application okay how.

Let's say that whatever the project you have, all you need to add is your actuator dependency.

Okay, if you are creating a fresh project, just add this dependency.

Also internally it brings this spring boot hyphen starter hyphen actuator to your pom.xml.

Okay.

And if you already have the project set up, just add this dependency okay.

Once the dependency is set.

Now if you see the application dot properties there are two major property okay.

So this one is all optional.

First one is optional management dot endpoints dot web dot base hyphen path okay.

So base path So I use slash manage.

I told you it's optional.

If I don't use it, the base path would be slash actuator.

Okay.

So actuator provide production ready end points.

There are so many end points.

So you can say that this is the base path.

So there would be like slash.

After that there would be metric name.

There are so many.

But base is this slash actuator slash metric name.

Okay.

But since I have overrided it because I don't want to use slash actuator, I want my personalized.

So I use slash manage.

Okay.

But this is optional.

Another property is also you can say that optional management dot endpoints dot web dot exposure dot

include.

So currently I have put star means all the matrices all the matrices endpoints are exposed.

Okay.

If I told you that it's an optional if it is not added.

If this property is not added, only health and info.

These two endpoints are visible.

Okay, you would be able to invoke only these two endpoints.

Others are not.

So if you want only selected then you can use comma separated here like health comma info and point

comma metrics endpoint comma loggers endpoint.

Likewise.

But for testing purpose we want to enable all the endpoints.

So I put star here okay.

But if you this is also an optional.

If you don't add it only these two endpoints you would be able to hit okay.

So that's all we have added the dependency in application dot properties.

We have added and generally both are optional.

And we are just starting our application and our application is started.

Now if you see that I am hitting this endpoint slash manage slash health.

So this is the base one.

Instead of slash actuator.

I have changed it to slash manage in application dot property.

And this is slash health.

Now it give me this.

It means that my server is up and running okay.

So it give me certain input data information.

Similarly there is another endpoint slash metric.

If I invoked it like slash manage.

This is my base slash metrics okay.

What it return it returned me all the endpoints which are currently available within this matrix.

Okay.

So let's say that I pick one of this endpoint.

So I have to call like slash manage.

This is the base okay slash metrics because we are going to use this one and one.

We are going to use one of the metrics of which are present inside this slash matrix.

And we are using this one executor dot dot core.

So slash manage slash matrix slash executor dot pool dot core.

So it returns me like what all the thread pool executors are present and what the thread pool size.

Okay.

So likewise you see that there are lot more matrices available for JVM for your CPU process for your

server.

Okay, for your thread pool executor, you can get lot more information about your system okay.

So let's see some useful inbuilt actuator endpoints.

So these are also an inbuilt only.

But this is just to show the demo like okay how you can add actuator within your project.

Very simple.

All you need is your dependency.

You have to enable or expose the endpoints which you have to use.

This is optional.

If you don't use it, you have to use slash actuator as a base path.

If you want, you can give some meaningful name like slash manage.

Okay.

And you are able to hit the endpoints.

So there are so many endpoints like slash health.

Now let's little bit further deep into this because this is very important one.

So by default it provide the health status of our application whether it's up down out of service.

Unknown okay.

Currently our app is up and running.

So that's why it is giving up.

So here if you see that we can even extend to add additional check.

So apart from so let's say that my requirement is that hey okay my application is up and running.

My Tomcat is up and running.

But I also want to check like hey, what about my DB?

Is it up and running or not?

What about the cache?

What about the my message broker?

So once If all of this are up, then only I want to make my system up.

If any of them is down, it should be down.

Okay.

So that also you can extend it.

Okay.

So very simple in this one let's say that I am adding DB functionality into the health itself okay.

So this is something that I am writing a class database health indicator.

This is the class name which I have given.

You can give any name.

All you have to do is you have to implement health indicator.

This health indicator interface is for this slash endpoint.

Slash health endpoint okay.

So we have to provide an implementation for this health method.

So since it is database so you can have your custom logic here to check whether the DB is up or not.

So here for now I am just returning.

True.

But in the production We can simulate like by checking whether that I'm able to query DB or not.

Okay, so for now let's say I am returning true that yes, my DB is up.

So if DB is up I am making health dot up.

Okay for the DB.

So for each one there is a health, for each one there is a health.

So I'm making it's health up.

Okay.

And also I have added the message like DB available.

If it is not available I am making the health down.

And with message like DB not available.

Similarly for cache I am doing another class cache health indicator which implements health indicator.

Implemented the health method.

Check the cache status.

And now here.

If you notice that I specifically made it false okay, just for testing purpose.

Now if the cache is up I can make cache health So it health is up or down, whatever we are doing.

So for now it is false.

So it would be held down with message like cash not available.

Okay.

So now if you hit this slash manage slash health okay you will see that hey got status down.

Hey why why only this one.

Where is this message DB available or cash not available.

And why down.

So see the above status one is aggregated one aggregated one.

And inside this it has multiple.

So where we have DB we have cash okay.

So when all are up when everything is up then only the above status is up.

If any one of the sub component or sub metric you can say that is down.

The above one is down also.

Saw.

Okay.

So but you can say that okay.

That is understood.

But where is the information?

I am not able to see my DB and this cache which I have added.

Okay I know that this is down because for the cache one I have specifically made false and for cache

it is down.

So that's why my overall aggregated is down also.

But where is the information?

See, by default health only show this much above status.

But if you want the complete details.

Also we have to add this management dot endpoint dot health show hyphen details equals to always by

default.

It's never okay.

Once you add this application dot properties and hit it again okay.

Now here if you see the details are added cache details, we make it the status down specifically.

And this is the info cache not available for database.

It's up and detail is DB available.

And since once sub service is down, the overall status is down.

Okay.

Similarly we have so many matrices right.

We have uh slash matrix endpoint.

And we have already seen that when you invoke this one it gives you a list of all the matrices which

are available within this.

And we can access particular matrix like this slash matrix slash particular matrix within this okay.

So there are so many available inside this.

Matrices like JVM memory use how much memory currently used by the JVM so you can get that information

okay JVM dot memory dot max.

What is the maximum memory JVM can use.

So how you can use this that slash manage slash matrix slash matrix slash right.

Because these are all the matrices are present within this endpoint.

Okay.

So this I want to use this.

So JVM dot memory dot use.

So it will give you this info.

Similarly you can get garbage collection matrices like JVM dot gc dot pos okay.

So you can get multiple information that okay total number of GC events occur, how many times GC has

run, total time spent, and what is the longest single GC pause observed.

Okay, so you can get all this information.

Similarly, you can get information regarding your thread, your system usage or your request HTTP server

dot request.

If you use this, you can get what is the total number of HTTP requests you have received.

Total time is spent handling all the requests.

Longest time taken to handle single request.

All this information you can get.

Okay.

So you can play different with this different end points.

You will get better information depending upon your need.

Your company, what matters you are interested in.

Okay, so there are more like thread dump, heap dump.

So those information are also available.

So another API is like slash manage slash thread dump okay.

So it helps you to diagnose deadlock or thread leaks.

Which thread are active blocked waiting okay.

Even the stack trace.

What code is executing by which thread thread name and everything.

So this is output you will get.

Hey, this is the thread.

Currently it is the stack trace.

Currently it is running this code.

It is currently like waiting or blocked or what is the state runnable.

Different thread.

So all this information you will get whatever you want.

Okay, so this is the official documentation.

Okay.

Um, I will put it into the description section.

Also, you can use it.

It has a list of all the endpoints.

And based on your company needs and the metrics which you are interested in you can use that.

Okay.

So you have heaped um mappings beans.

What are beans in your uh spring application.

Is there.

Shut down okay.

Loggers.

So many things okay.

Now only thing specifically I want to mention that this shutdown and heap dump, even though we have

put a star right, you remember, exposed all the endpoints here, exposed all the endpoint star.

Even after that.

Also, you won't be able to hit slash shutdown and slash heap dump like slash manage slash Shut down

and slash manage slash heap dump.

You won't be able to hit it.

Why?

Because they are very critical endpoints.

When you invoke shutdown, it will stop your application.

When you call the heap dump right, it will expose sensitive information like some token, password,

etc..

So Spring Boot want you to take additional.

You can say that, uh measure that.

Hey, yes, you are totally accepted the risk involved by exposing then these endpoints.

So for this you have to specifically mention like this in the property management dot endpoint dot heap

dump dot access unrestricted.

Currently it's restricted.

Similarly for shutdown also management dot endpoint dot shutdown dot access unrestricted.

After that only you would be able to access this even though you have mentioned star, you have to unrestricted

manually.

It is just way of saying that spring boot saying hey, you have accepted the risk involved.

Okay, so you can say that with great power actuator provide you great power.

The responsibility, great responsibility also comes okay security.

Very important part here in that is all these endpoints are generally public okay.

So like slash health slash info slash matrix slash whatever the pool JVM these are all public.

Anybody can invoke it if they know your URL and port number okay.

And these can expose some critical info about your system.

You don't want anybody to be get uh call this endpoint.

So you have to add security to this endpoint.

So we have already covered spring security in depth.

Kindly check it out.

All we can do is that you have in the dependency.

You have to add the spring security.

Okay, we have already covered.

If you have already covered spring security, you might already know this thing.

Very simple part.

So you need spring security dependency.

And in the security config we have again I am saying you if you haven't seen the spring security video,

you might be seeing this as are out of the context like what is going on.

But that's what I mentioned.

Like kindly check it out.

Spring security where we have discussed everything this in depth.

Okay.

So there we have a filter chain.

So here I have put that okay.

Only the health and info.

You can permit everything okay.

But for any other request you need to authenticate.

So even if you don't want to this you can just simply say any request authenticated okay.

You can choose any authentication JWT for here I am just using basic authentication for testing purpose

Okay.

And in application dot properties you can provide username password.

Again this is just for testing basic authentication okay.

For more in depth like.

How security works.

You can check it out here.

So just wanted to highlight that you can.

Secure these endpoints like any request you have to authenticate or you can add more.

Like hey request matcher like any endpoint start with slash manage or slash actuator say.

Star star any endpoint start with this should has role let's say admin you can add this.

We have already seen this before how we can do that.

But I'm saying that you can reuse those.

To manage your actuator endpoints that they have some specific roles and they should be properly authenticated

before anybody can use it.

Okay.

So let's say that if I try to use it slash envy without providing the authentication, it will say unauthorized.

And after providing username and password it will it show me the data.

Okay.

So before proceeding further, if you haven't seen the spring security, kindly check it out.

Because I am not covering here because that would be duplicate and it's not a small topic.

There are total overall nine parts in this one.

So spring security is a very big topic.

So kindly check it out.

And this all these things would be clear.

So just at here my intention is to just tell that always make sure that in spring security you have

specifically checking that all the actuator endpoints has a specific role checks for authorization and

it should be authenticated also.

This is very important.

Custom actuator endpoints okay.

So like we have so many endpoints like slash actuator or let's say that we have changed it to slash

manage right.

We can add our own custom endpoint here.

Also how with this annotation at the right end point okay.

So over the class you just need to annotate at the endpoint ID equals to whatever the name you will

give.

So see this example.

So I have written one class like my custom stats endpoint.

Any name which you can give.

And this is a bean.

So you have to put at the root component.

Now all I have added is at the root end point ID equals to.

This is the endpoint.

I have added my hyphen custom hyphen stats.

So this will become slash actuator slash or slash manage slash this one My custom stats.

So this is the new endpoint.

Actuator endpoint I have added now.

Now within this class we can either have read operation.

It's equivalent to get.

We can have write operation equivalent to post.

And we can have delete operation equivalent to delete.

Okay within this class.

So now let's say that within this class I have exposed the endpoint I am adding read operation two read

operation.

So one is I am adding a method public string read all and I'm just returning.

Hello spring boot.

Okay so now I have annotated with add the read operation.

So this is a get.

So if you hit a get request slash actuator or slash manage whatever slash this endpoint my hyphen custom

hyphen stats that's all.

And this is a get call.

So which method it will invoke, it will invoke this method.

Okay.

So it will return.

Hello spring boot.

Similarly, I have added another method and annotated with at the read operation.

But here if you see that I have added some selectors, selector is more like.

After this one we can provide certain.

You can say that placeholder for that for name I can have let's say Shreyansh here message.

Hello.

Okay.

So you can say that after this your endpoint.

After this your endpoint.

These are selectors.

Selector one, selector two selector three which are in sequence.

And it should be matched with it in sequence.

Okay.

So now I have let's say slash actuator slash my custom strat slash I have put.

So this get mapped to this one.

Hello.

This get mapped to this one Okay so two selectors.

So it will pick a method.

And it's a get.

So it pick a read operation method and has two actuator uh two selectors.

So this method will get invoked.

And yes one more thing we have to add before running is.

So this is the custom endpoint.

We have to expose it also okay.

So you you if you are using selected one health comma info comma you have to provide here also.

Otherwise you can just simply put a star.

It will automatically get exposed.

Okay.

Now if I just hit slash manage uh because I have overwrite slash actuator.

So I'm using slash manage slash my custom stat.

So this is a get call and no selector.

So this method will get invoked.

Hello spring boot.

Now I am calling slash manage slash my custom endpoint.

Now this is selector one.

Selector two.

So it will pick one get.

So this is get called right.

It will pick some get read operation method which has two selector matching it name messages.

Both are string so it will get invoked.

Okay.

Similarly we have write operation and delete operation okay so this is post.

This is delete okay.

So return type can be anything.

It return type at anywhere.

You can have either string primitive Pojo whatever you want to return okay.

So write operation is also no difference in that delete operation.

No difference in that.

You can even have selectors also like this I am using.

So I have a refresh method annotated with right.

So any endpoint which is invoking post slash manage or slash actuator slash my hyphen custom hyphen

stats.

So this is a post no selectors.

So it will see that which method with write operation matches it.

So this will get matched and this code will get executed.

Similarly, if it is a delete HTTP method and slash manage slash my custom stat and the selector is

like key my key.

So it will see that okay, delete.

So it will look for all the method which are annotated with delete.

And then it will try to match the selector.

So one selector only which is string matched.

This will get executed.

Okay.

And also very important that Spring Boot considered this right.

And delete operation very critical okay.

So it requires authentication for that one.

If you have writing a custom endpoint and you are using write operation and delete operation right then

Spring Boot say that hey these are critical means it is changing something post and delete Okay, so

it specifically warned that you should have authentication for it.

So you can just simply add the same security filter, any request you want it to be authenticated.

That's all okay for if you are just using get read operation, even though you are not adding security,

you would be able to hit properly.

Okay, but if you are using write and delete operation specifically, you have to make sure that these

endpoints actuator endpoints or specifically let's say this where the write and delete operations are

present on this endpoint.

At least this should be authenticated.

Okay.

And again you have to make sure that you include this okay.

Or expose this or use a star okay.

And if you see that now if you are calling post my custom star start, you have to provide username

password because it has to be authenticated.

It got invoked.

Similarly delete this endpoint and one selector so it will match the method you have to provide.

Username password because we are authenticating here.

Basic authentication.

Okay.

So reset done.

It worked okay.

Very important part.

This is very important.

Adding a new custom endpoint actuator endpoint is very important because this is used by a lot of frameworks.

Let's say that even the refresh scope.

Okay in the centralized configuration that also uses it.

We will see that later.

But I just want to say that lot of Spring frameworks uses this functionality that they expose an endpoints.

And if we call them it do something okay.

And those endpoints are supported through this actuator.

Endpoints.

Custom endpoints.

Now one more important thing is hey, I got it.

Actuator.

Help us to provide the metrics and these metrics we can push to monitoring platform.

You can you know that there are so many monitoring platform.

One of the very popular is Datadog.

Another another is Prometheus CloudWatch I think CloudWatch is from Amazon okay.

So there are so many monitoring platforms available.

So we can push this data to this monitoring platform also.

So how see this might not be needed.

But this is you can say that in the companies they are using it okay.

So to understand the actuator you can say that you can skip it.

But I would say that within a company definitely you might be using some monitoring platform for your

application there.

You will see that Internally how it actually your application is putting the data into your monitoring

platform.

So now let's say in the data doc I'm using data Doc.

And currently I took a free trial of it.

Now in this one I goes to my this profile.

And here if you see that there is something called API keys within the API keys I created a new key

and copied it.

Now in the application dot properties I just added this management dot data doc dot matrix dot export

dot api key and I added this API key.

Okay.

So this is since this is a testing profile.

Okay.

So that's why I'm adding it here.

But it's never recommended to add a key like this in the application dot properties either add it into

environment variable.

But this is a profile just for testing.

Okay.

So you can uh add key.

I added the key like this here.

Okay.

Another thing is you have to enable the export.

True means that you are allowing the spring boot to push the data to the data dock.

Okay.

And another is that in which frequency is spring boot has to push the data.

So I put five second means every five second it will push the metric to the data dock.

And yes you need to add the dependency also.

So I added the dependency micrometer hyphen registry.

Hyphen Datadog.

So this dependency I have added okay.

And I added this application dot properties.

And in the Datadog profile you have created the key.

Use that key here.

Very simple.

Okay.

Now all the metrics of spring boot actuator now automatically pushed to the Datadog.

If you open a Datadog and here you see metrics.

Okay.

So here in the same one you will see the metrics, right.

So if you click the metrics you will see summary.

Explore volume and within a summary you will see a list of matrices.

So I open just one matrix like HTTP server dot request count.

If I open it you able to see certain graphs now.

So every time I invoke my application it's like a request I am making a request.

So it is like a count graph is that those data is get published to Datadog.

And this you will get certain graphs to visualize and monitor.

Okay.

So if you check out this summary you will see like so many hundred of matrices, you can choose the

matrix which you want to monitor and you can see your application health.

Okay.

Try it out.

It's very interesting like and lot of learning.

Okay.

But if you still have any doubt let me know.

We can discuss further.

Okay guys.

Thank you.

Bye.