# Introduction: Microservices (English Dubbed) | Better with 1.25x playback speed

Hello guys.
Welcome to Concept Encoding.
So today we have the third video in the High Level Designer series.
We have already covered two videos.
And this third part is on monolithic versus microservices covering all important microservices patterns.
Let's understand what architectures we have.
We have two types of architectures monolithic and microservices.
Monolithic and microservices.
So what do you understand by monolithic?
First let's understand the meaning of monolithic.
Nowadays we refer to monolithic as legacy applications.
When you join a company, they might say this is a legacy application that needs to be migrated to microservices.
So legacy is also now used as monolithic applications because nowadays no one uses it.
Why is it not use because in monolithic.
Let's assume you are building an online.
Store.
So you have put all functionalities into one application, just one application.
It takes care of everything like generating orders, managing product inventory, login, management,
billing, payment and all back end functionalities are in one application and that's why it's called
a monolithic single application where everything is.
So what are its dis?
Advantages?
What are its disadvantages that force us to move from monolithic to microservices?
The first disadvantage is what I would call here.
Overloaded ID.
You might have noticed that whenever you try to load your company's legacy application on an ID, it
either doesn't load or takes a long time because it becomes so large, sometimes reaching gigabytes.
So it becomes an overloaded ID.
It becomes very difficult to load it on the ID, and you know how important the ID is for a developer
to work.
So first is the overloaded ID.
Second.
Scaling is very hard.
Okay.
What does scale mean?
Scale means to grow.
Alright.
When do you grow?
When all your operations are fast first, your CI jobs are fast.
Okay.
What do you mean by CI continuous integration?
So when you talk about DevOps where your regression, running it, pushing it, monitoring it all these
are fast.
Then your scaling will also be fast.
Slowly.
Right?
I mean scale is not like you are just increasing it.
Scaling.
I would also say that all your sub operations okay, how easy it is to manage them.
Scaling will be that easy to if scaling is very hard here.
Why is that?
Because all the functionality is within this within one.
Okay, if you have to change anything, let's say I have to change one line.
There's an online bug I need to fix.
So what will you do?
First you'll do regression on the whole thing.
Push the whole thing.
It will be monitored okay.
So it takes a lot of lot of time okay.
And if you have to change one line then here you have to see that this is a very tightly coupled.
This is a very tightly coupled application.
Okay.
What does tightly coupled mean?
If you change one line, it might impact so many domains.
In this there are no domains.
Everything is in one application.
But what I'm trying to say is let's say you have order code, then you have product code, then you
have payment code all within one.
If you fix one line here, it might be that the product is also using the same code.
The order is also using the same code, so it will impact both.
So you have this very tightly coupled okay.
So whenever you have to change something you have to test everything okay.
And then you have to deploy the entire application again deploy the entire application again.
Right.
And here it takes a lot of lot of lot of time okay.
Very.
It will take time to deploy.
And it will take a lot of time for regression to end.
And the biggest thing is if one application is in GB okay, let's assume there is a particular piece
of code.
Meaning let's assume it's payment billing.
All functionality is put inside one, but I just have ordering.
The capacity for ordering is very high, meaning the API for ordering the code in it is coming in very
high.
Okay, how you would scale.
If you have to do scaling, you will have to add another server with the entire application GB.
If this is ten GB, then a whole one and another ten GB application server will have to be added.
Even if I just have to scale the functionality of the order, it is not possible.
Let's assume I have a product inside it, a piece of code.
When a piece of business logic, let's assume I just have to scale it.
Is it possible in monolithic?
No, you have to scale the entire application, which is much costlier also, and it is very difficult
to scale.
Okay.
And why scaling difficult?
Because firstly you saw that debugging is very hard.
CI job regression run deployment is very hard, right?
If you have to fix the code, just fix the code then how difficult it will become when there is such
a.
Large code base.
Okay, so I can go on and on about this disadvantage.
Okay.
What are the disadvantages of monolithic.
So after so many disadvantages now let's see why there was a need for microservices.
Okay.
All the disadvantages of monolithic are an advantage of microservices.
Okay.
So now here I have divided a very large application into small parts and divided it into small services
like one product, one order management, one billing one payment.
One account management one login.
I can go on different services, right?
If I find a bug in any one of them, I just have to debug it in the service, fix it here and deploy
it here.
Okay, so how easy has it become?
All right.
So earlier I was taking the entire overall.
Now I need to work on just one service.
Okay.
So managing the component has become very, very easy.
Yes.
Managing has become very easy for the developer.
The second thing is scaling.
I am getting a lot of traffic for orders so I can scale just the order.
Okay.
I can add more of its services to it.
All right.
So scalability is very good.
I can scale what I need.
You can see it's pocket friendly also.
Why should I pay to scale my login when the work is getting done as it is?
I can scale the component I need.
Okay.
So there are a lot of advantages.
All the disadvantages of microservices in monolithic.
That is an advantage of microservices.
And this is a very good interview question.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of microservices.
It's very good.
It's a very important interview question.
There are many advantages.
All the disadvantages we saw are actually advantages okay.
And now let's look at its disadvantages.
Right.
So now let's look at the disadvantages.
Now what are the disadvantages.
The first thing.
The first disadvantage is that this proper breakage means the way we broke the monolithic service into
small services, it should be done properly, so there should be some understanding of how I should
break it.
So the first disadvantage is that it should be done properly.
If it's not properly divided into microservices, it might cost a lot.
Of.
So let's say I divided this monolithic into four components, but it should be loosely coupled.
The thing with microservices is that all the services you are making should be loosely coupled.
But let's assume I made it in such a way that it's not loosely coupled.
So whatever request comes in.
So I have to do a lot of communication okay.
This has a dependency on this.
This has a dependency on this meaning.
To complete one request, it's become quite tightly coupled.
Meaning if I have to change something in this, then I have to change this, to change this to okay,
if I have to change this, then I will have to change this to.
So I haven't created a loop system.
Okay.
So what will happen is that here when one service communicates with another service there is latency.
Latency issue.
So our latency can go up where here.
Assume one API was working in 5 milliseconds or 2 milliseconds or five milliseconds.
Here it might start working in ten milliseconds due to latency.
So latency can increase if we don't divide the components properly.
And if we don't decompose the monolithic system properly.
Undershoot.
So this is a big disadvantage that if you don't design microservices properly, they won't remain loosely
coupled internally.
We are still saying this is service one.
This is service two.
But if you see they are not loosely coupled they are very tightly coupled.
What does loosely coupled mean?
Loosely coupled means that I can scale a particular service.
Okay.
I can change anything in it without making an impact on the other service.
But if I'm making it tightly coupled, then if I'm scaling this, it might be that I have to scale this
too.
So there will be a problem here.
So this is the first disadvantage.
Second.
Now you will see that deployment happened live.
Okay.
So this is service one.
Service two.
Service three.
Okay.
Now this service is live.
It made several new code changes, new code changes, made new code changes and it went live.
Because of these changes.
Maybe S2 services using S3.
Okay, if you assume earlier it used to send a response.
But after the new changes it did a dash something change in the response?
Exactly.
Something change in the behavior of a try.
It will break a try.
It will break S2.
So one is using S2 and this got break.
This also got break.
So what happens here is that firstly it's very difficult to monitor which components I need to monitor.
If I'm pushing this because it's clients can break.
If I changed something in its response or something that S2 is using due to the new code and changes
from S3.
Okay, so there's a bit of complexity here that whenever a service goes live, its clients can get impacted,
making debugging a bit hard.
Assume this broke so the engineer from this team will come and start debugging it.
So they'll say oh, it's failing because of S2.
I'm calling S2.
It will go to the S2 team.
Now the S2 team engineer will say, okay, we got failed because of S3.
Then S3 will come and solve the problem.
So by looking at the R it is very confusing where the error lies in who is the culprit.
Okay if S3 is the culprit, but S3 is running perfectly but its clients broke.
So here monitoring becomes.
A bit difficult.
Okay, the third most main very very important.
Transaction management.
Okay.
Assume this one DB one.
dv okay.
And one request.
Comes I can create a transaction.
And I told you that the properties of SL should be fulfilled so I can start the transaction.
Once the DB operation is complete, I can stop.
But in microservices what happens?
This application has its own DB.
This application has its own DB, this application has its own DB.
So it can only start a transaction.
Stop a transaction okay.
But if a request is coming and it needs to be processed by more than 1 or 2 services, assume service
one and service two will together process a request in 2000.
So if you look here, a common transaction cannot be made.
It's not possible because it's 2D right.
So transaction management what is this got success and this got fail.
What is this God?
This God fail.
Alright, so what's simple here?
If only one DB is successful, we will proceed.
If it fails, we will roll back.
If there are ten tables and out of ten tables.
Eight tables are successful and insertion fails in two tables.
Then I will roll back.
But what about this here?
Insertion is successful in tables, but it failed in this DB, so I will have to roll back here as well.
So transaction management is a little difficult.
So there are some disadvantages in microservices.
But we have a solution.
Now comes the second part of the video.
We can divide microservices into two parts micro and service.
Now we are saying it should be micro.
Micro means small.
How small?
How much small?
Is there any definition of this?
I'm saying to break a monolithic right, or if a new application is to be made from the start as microservices,
then how many small services should I make?
So there should be some pattern right to guide me.
I will tell you a high level where different patterns are used and which one we are covering up now.
So now look here.
What are the different phases of microservices.
The first is.
Decomposition.
The second is.
Database.
The third is.
Communication.
The fourth is.
Integration and governance.
Let me start with this.
What do they mean?
All right, so each level has a meaning.
Okay.
Let's assume it's a monolithic service.
So decomposition is defining some patterns for me based on those patterns.
Can I decompose this big one into smaller parts.
All right.
How small.
How much micro okay.
So there are different patterns.
Which patterns are there.
Decompose by.
Business capability.
All right.
What's the second one.
Decomposed by sub domain.
The first phase is decomposition dividing a large service into smaller ones.
Or if you are automatically creating a new service, then how to decide how small a service should be?
There are different patterns.
So here it is the database.
Now you have made small services.
Now should I keep a separate database for each one.
Or should I maintain a common database for everyone.
This is my database.
There is a common database for all of them here.
They all are using the same thing.
Okay, so different design.
So what is here is service on the database.
Or database shared.
Next is communication.
Now you have created different services.
How will they communicate with each other.
There are different ways for that.
We have different patterns.
So different patterns are explained like you can do API communication via API via events and minimal.
But you understand what communication is.
Then comes integration.
This microservice also needs to be integrated with the level like user interface.
So some other applications how will they integrate with each other.
Okay.
So there could be something like API gateways and many other patterns.
Okay.
So you will see that at many phases these are different phases.
You can call them different phases from starting to create microservices to breaking down one big service
into pieces.
Right up to the end finally comes observability.
To monitoring.
How many patterns are there?
So at each phase.
At the decomposition phase, I chose this pattern at the database phase I use this pattern at the communication
phase.
Let's say I use this pattern at the integration phase.
Let's say out of this I use this pattern.
So mixing all the patterns together then your microservices form.
So you saw how complex it is.
Have you ever thought that microservices involve so much.
Right.
In interviews we directly say that this is the.
Here you take a load balancer and here are different microservices.
And okay we keep making them quickly.
But here many questions can arise about how you will divide in microservices.
Why.
Okay.
So this is where patterns help in deciding whether to divide microservices or not.
Which microservice will be suitable for which question.
So today we open the decomposition pattern.
All right.
Now here teaching first our.
Decomposition pattern.
You understand the meaning of decomposition pattern.
I have to divide one big into small parts.
How small?
How much?
How much small?
That's what the decomposition pattern tells.
So in this we have to decompose.
Subdomains.
This is called d d d there.
And one is decomposition business functionality.
And this is also called capability.
All right.
So decomposition here we have two patterns.
So let's look at the first pattern.
Business capability.
Business capability pattern.
So what does business capability say.
Let's take an example of some online order application.
So here what business functionality do I have.
All right so what can I have here.
Order management.
Product management.
All right.
These are all different business functionalities.
You can say what is its job.
Its job is just to manage orders.
Manage the incoming orders.
What is its job to manage inventory then what is one account management.
Login.
All right.
Billing.
Payment.
All right so I can go on.
So here you will see how we have divided each one based on business functionality.
What is its job?
The one whose job is to take orders, make it a separate service.
The one whose job is to handle products.
Make it a separate service.
The one whose job is to handle user accounts.
Make it a separate service.
Make logging a separate service billing payment.
So what have we done here?
According to your business capability business function you create services.
So what is the challenge here?
Here one challenge is that you should have good knowledge.
Of what functions are there in your business.
If you don't have clarity on this, then it becomes a bit difficult to decide whether this service will
be made or not.
So the first thing necessary in this is good knowledge of your business functionality.
Business capability.
All right then only you would be able to determine the proper business This functionality okay.
So you can divide it in this way.
So the first thing is to divide based on business capability.
It doesn't matter how small it is.
And here if you say there's no definition of small micro assume for one application this much is micro.
But for someone else this is micro.
For someone such a big application can be one micro.
It depends on how big a project we are making, how much one service will be called micro for someone.
Such a small application is a micro service.
For someone, it's so big.
For someone, it's bringing such a big micro.
So that depends.
So order management itself is very big, but.
If you look at it for this these are micro services.
This is known for him.
It's known micro.
This is known micro.
This much services.
Micro.
You got it right.
There's no definition of micro.
Micro is used in context in which context someone considers themselves.
Micro order management itself is a very big application.
Okay.
But the way we are designing it, in that case it is a micro service because here I have divided based
on business capability.
So this is one micro service.
This is another micro service.
Okay.
So now let's come to the second divided by subdomain.
Okay.
In divided by subdomain.
Now what happens is I told you that here one module can be very big in itself right.
When it can be very big in itself, can we divide it into submodules or not?
Okay.
So that's why it is known as domain driven design okay.
Here what BDD is also called domain.
Driven design.
Now, what it says is that domain driven means you have one order management as one domain.
Okay, this is not a microservice.
I'm not calling it a microservice yet.
So I said, okay.
Order management is one domain.
This is one domain here.
What we were calling this this became one service.
This is my microservice.
But in the subdomain.
What am I saying.
Decompose by subdomain.
This is my domain okay.
A domain can have multiple microservices.
Payment is one domain.
Okay.
Within payment there can be many microservices.
Forward.
You can see forward payment when here user one is making a payment and you can say one reverse payment
where it means refund, etc..
All this is coming.
So there are different microservices right?
So here I am dividing based on domain.
But here I have done it based on business capability.
Order is one business capability functionality.
Make this one service.
But you will see here that by subdomain you can divide one domain into more pieces.
Order management can be divided into order tracking.
Here what else can be related to order order tracking.
Order placing I am placing an order okay.
Similarly.
Like this.
Okay.
Divided into small subdomains.
Similarly payment.
The example I gave you.
What happens in payment one user has to pay another user.
So after making the payment it may also need to be referred back to the user.
So it has two domains.
One is like payment forward payment where I am making the payment.
The second is reverse payment.
I am reversing it back where I added another capability referred capability became another capability.
Here the capability became the capability to make a payment.
So you see I divided it domain wise.
Okay.
So you understood the difference.
What is the first difference?
They seem very similar.
But there is a big difference here.
I first defined the domain that this is a domain.
And within that domain I extracted small independent services okay.
But in the first one what was happening in business functionality was that I saw the functionality.
This is one functionality order, management order.
It is all related functionality of order.
Make it one service.
This is all related to payment.
Make it one service.
But in sub domain it is not like that.
Got it guys.
So ten.
What nose decomposition part?
