# Service Mesh and its Architecture in Microservices

Hey guys on this side and welcome to Concept and Coding.
And today in system design I am going to cover another important topic how to microservices communicate
with each other.
So if you remember from the previous video in which uh, in depth we have covered an API gateway, you
can easily recall this diagram where like how the request comes to an API gateway.
And from API gateway it goes to a particular, uh, application load balancer.
And that application load balancer takes care of distributing the traffic to a particular microservice
instances.
Okay.
So if I just remove this, uh, complexity of region availability zone DNS.
So this is how simple it can be illustrated.
Now the next follow up question interviewer do is that how this two microservices communicate with each
other?
How.
And it is not that easy.
Question.
There are a lot of things.
Now let's say that if we don't know about service mesh, if we don't know about service mesh, and if
this question has been asked to me how to microservices communicate with each other, then what I will
do is I will do a like a brute force.
Let's see that what all things we need.
And then we'll see that how micro service mesh helps.
So let's understand that microservice A wants to communicate with microservice B.
So this is let's say microservice A and it wants to talk to microservice B.
How it will do.
The first capability it will need is service discovery capability.
So microservice A wants to communicate with microservice B then it needs its location IP address and
port number.
Then only it can call right.
So first thing it need is service discovery capability.
So here, if you see this all yellow icons which I am showing means this is the functionality you need
it.
So request goes to from API goes to load balancer.
Now it goes to a particular instance of a microservices one right.
Now this has to talk to microservices two or b.
So what it will do is it will check with the service discovery.
Hey give me the microservice B location and service discovery will return the location of all the instances.
So let's say that this is the microservices B and it has three instance.
So service discovery is one possible option is it will return all the address of this three instance
URL and port.
Or another scenario is the service discovery returns the address of the application load balancer of
microservices be itself its address.
Application load balancer address itself.
So no matter what scenario service discovery is following, the first capability you need is service
discovery capability.
If you if your microservice A has to contact with microservice B okay.
What is the second capability required.
Load balancing capability.
So let's say that scenario one where the service discovery is returning the Instance's address all the
possible instances address.
So now here if you see that generally in application dot properties of microservice A, it would have
because it has to talk with microservice B right.
So in microservice A Application.properties you will see this configuration.
Okay.
What is the URL and port number.
Because this has to be resolved so that it can invoke the Of microservice B.
So till now we have seen that we need service discovery, through which we can get the address of all
the instances of microservice B.
Now which instance to pick.
So that requires some load balancing capability.
So microservices need this client side load balancing capability also so that it can pick one of the
instance right.
And then it will fill this instance URL and port number of that particular instance.
And then it will invoke that particular instance of microservices B.
So the another capability which it required apart from service discovery is client side load balance
capability.
Or we have also seen another use case where the service discovery return the address of load balancer
itself.
Application load balancer in that microservice A can directly invoke the application load balancer itself.
But here, if you see there is an extra hop on network call is required, which might increase your
latency.
And that's one of the reason which I think, uh, this is less frequently used.
Okay.
So till now we have seen that two components are required.
One is service discovery, another is client side load balancer capability.
What else.
Third is authorization.
Even though these microservices A and microservices B is internal your company components itself.
But still it required authorization and authentication.
Also that hey.
If microservices A is allowed to invoke this particular API of microservices B is it authorized or not?
Okay.
And then sometimes we also want authentication.
The microservices uh, be want to authenticate.
Hey, I am getting this request.
Is it really from a or from somebody else?
So we need microservices also need this authentication and authorization capability.
So currently in this example where microservices A wants to call microservices B.
So that's why I just put an authorization box here in the microservices B.
So before even allowing the microservices A to access it, it first authorize it.
What else.
We need a circuit breaker capability.
So what is circuit breaker capability is that let's say you have microservices one.
And uh you want to invoke microservices two.
Now let's say that in the circuit breaker capability like you are calling ten times and all ten requests
fail.
So with the circuit breaker capability, we can control that.
Hey, from the 11th or let's say that for one minute we will not even invoke the microservices to anytime
you want to invoke microservice two, it itself says that no fail.
Okay, after one minute it will again allow.
Or you can say that open the circuit so that you can allow invoking the microservices too.
So definitely you need circuit breaker capability.
Right.
If uh generally if you you might have heard of Hystrix in Spring Boot.
Right.
So that is nothing but provide a circuit breaker capability.
So definitely you need this circuit breaker capability also.
Okay.
What else we need.
We need retry capability.
Also retry capability means if microservices A is invoking microservices.
B this request got failed.
But sometimes what happens is it is an intermittent issue.
Means, uh, if you retry it, it might pass.
Generally if you see that for x these are validation errors.
Validation errors.
These are not retry.
You cannot retry this no matter how many times you will retry.
You will always find this validation error.
But there are certain called five error which is generally retrievable means something.
Internal error has come.
Maybe it could be a temporary issue or some other issue.
But sometime by retrying it this might get passed.
So sometimes do microservices do retry.
But we need to build that capability.
So you need that retry capability also.
So now here if you see one more yellow box got added what else deployment strategy.
So there are different deployment strategy.
If you are following my other channel where I am covering the concept in ten minutes.
I have already covered canary red, black and blue green deployment strategy.
So let's say that what is canary deployment is let's say that this is microservices one and this is
microservices two.
But now you are in the process of deploying a new manifest in the microservices two.
So now let's say that there are two manifest available for microservices.
Two this is old manifest and this is the new manifest.
So now when the new like out of 100% traffic, you want 90% traffic to go into the old manifest itself
and 10% traffic, you want to go to the new manifest component microservice instances.
Then what did happen is it is generally known as Canary deployment.
Okay.
So canary is just you can say that a way to validate your new manifest and gradually you increase this
number 20, 30, 40 till your old manifest instances become zero and the new manifest instances become
100.
Okay.
So this is also controlled through load balancer.
So means whatever the client side load balancing capability you have you also need the support for deployment
strategy.
So you have to build that technology also in your client side load balancer deployment strategy.
Okay.
What else.
Telemetry capability.
So when I say telemetry it means we need to collect data which will help in analysis and monitoring
of a component.
Okay.
What all APIs are getting a traffic slash API slash.
Let's say this is my API user slash API slash, uh, something, uh, payment something.
Okay, so this is getting, uh, let's say one lakh traffic day wise, minute wise, r wise.
So all this capability, you have granularity level, so you have all this data.
So I'm for payment I am getting 50 K traffic per day.
The latency of each API is that let's say that one second here we have let's say two seconds.
So you need all this data.
And also you want some samples okay I want this traffic I need some samples okay I want to see the logs.
Who will help telemetry capability.
So it collects all the data right.
Which ultimately helps in analysis and monitoring of a component.
So now let's say that microservices A is invoking microservices B then definitely microservices B also
have to keep recording whatever the call is coming, whether a failure call, whether a success call,
whatever it has to record it.
Okay.
So it has to record for latency, for error rate, whatever the traffic, etc..
So it has to record all these things.
So this is another important part.
And that's why one more yellow box.
So now here if you see just for two microservices to communicate microservices A to microservices B,
what all things required 123456 and also this deployment strategy seven total seven things you required.
And there might be more like but at least this is required.
Then only you would be able to answer in an interview.
Yes.
Now I would be able to communicate with microservices B properly.
Definitely.
The question would be any better solution?
Yes, service mesh is our answer.
Now check this diagram.
So now I will take an example of Kubernetes.
So here if you see from a API gateway when a request comes it checks with the service discovery request
goes to a particular application load balancer.
Now in Kubernetes.
Now from this application load balancer the request goes to a particular instance.
So in Kubernetes each instance is generally known as pod is inside a pod right.
So there could be a multiple pod and each pod host and microservice instance.
So now let's say that this is microservices one or microservice a instance.
So here in this service mesh right there is one sidecar proxy is also added in the same pod in the same
pod.
And when I say proxy it's because every request which goes out of the microservices one and microservices
and any request which goes inside microservice one instance.
Also it intercepts it has the capability to intercept.
That's why it is known as sidecar proxies.
Okay.
So now here, if you see that if your microservices one has five instances.
So with all five instances you have this individual sidecar proxies respectively.
Okay.
So now I am considering only one that only one pod.
Similarly there can be multiple pod n.
So each pod has one instance of a microservice and also the sidecar proxy.
Similarly microservices two okay, it has multiple pod pod one to pod n, and each pod has a microservices
two inside, uh, instance and the sidecar proxy.
So now here, if you see that right, this sidecar proxies can directly talk to each other.
Can directly talk to each other.
Okay.
And this is known as data plane.
Okay.
This is known as this side is known as data plane.
But there should be somebody who need to control this.
So there is something called control plane.
Okay.
So we have seen so many, uh, things.
Right.
Uh, load balancing.
Then second we see the service discovery.
Third is like authentication authorization.
Uh, fourth is like deployment strategy.
Fifth like, uh, circuit breaker.
Sixth is like retry, and seventh is like telemetry.
So all these capabilities, you can say that the sidecar proxy has it.
Okay.
Load balancing capability.
It has it has circuit breaker capability.
It has retry capability.
Right.
And uh, everything it has so it has load balancing capability.
So it also has a deployment strategy capability also.
So this sidecar proxies has all these logics and we can control it through this control panel.
So here first we have is configuration manager.
So configuration manager read the configuration from user.
I can provide let's say yml file okay.
Or maybe there are some UI.
Also we can provide the configuration.
Hey I have let's say that enable uh enable circuit breaker capability.
Let's say I'm saying true.
Yes I want circuit breaker capability.
You enable it circuit breaker.
Whenever there is a subsequent failure, you want to break it.
For how many minute?
Let's say one minute.
I'm just saying for example.
Okay.
You want retry?
Yes.
True I want retry capability.
Retry for how many times?
Let's say three times.
So all this configuration it can accept also yml file and also from maybe UI are also possible which
accept the input from a user.
So configuration manager validate.
Validate this configurations which is coming from user and make sure that it is properly understandable
format.
Okay.
So once the format of your configuration is uh right configuration manager forward this to traffic controller.
So this traffic controller, what it will do is it will pass this to the sidecars actually.
Okay.
So it will pass this information to the sidecars.
Hey.
Yes this is all the configurations and all.
So now sidecar proxies already has this capabilities.
Now it will just use this configuration to determine okay you need this capability okay.
And for this uh this much minute you want me to break if there is a subsequent failure.
So it work properly using those capability.
Then there is something called security manager.
Security manager is, uh, helpful for providing authorization, authentication and this thing.
So security manager also keeps.
Providing the data to the sidecar proxy regarding all those authentication authorization thing.
So let's say that two side proxies can communicate directly with each other okay.
So when they are communicating with each other it's uh properly encrypted okay.
So encryption may be required.
Public key and private key.
So how they will share this public key.
The security manager helps that okay.
So security manager helps that.
So let's say that this is the microservices to sidecar proxy.
So it generates uh its private key.
Let's say generated private key.
Now what what it will do is it will generate its private key and also has public key which it want to
share with the another sidecar proxy.
So security manager, it will take help from the security manager.
Hey, this is my public key.
Can you help me to get a TLS certificate also?
Right.
So TLS certificate, you know that we can have a public key attached.
And also I think by, uh, properly signed, which give you a properly authentication that.
Yes, this certificate belongs to microservice two only.
So it give, give us an identity.
So when the request goes to this sidecar proxy, it knows that this is coming from this, uh, this
microservice to okay.
And this certificate also has a public key.
So whatever the request which is coming encrypted, it can decrypt it also and also authorization whether
this, uh, microservices.
Services.
Microservice A has the authority or permission to access your API or not.
So all this information security manager can configure right and it properly time to time share with
the sidecar proxies.
And then we have telemetry which works on pull and push method A pull method is telemetry.
Time to time check with the sidecar proxy and keep on collecting the data about the traffic.
Okay.
And in the push is like sidecar is pushing the traffic.
Uh, the metrics to the telemetry generally, in my understanding, telemetry.
Most of the works on the pull sidecar do not push it.
Telemetry time to time.
Keep on fetching the data from the sidecar proxy.
Okay.
And from this telemetry, we can create a different dashboard observability dashboard through which
you can check your metrics.
Right.
You can check the latency and everything.
So one question might come to your mind that hey.
So now let's say that when microservices A has to talk with microservices B, so does sidecar proxy.
When are they not making a network call here now.
So with the control panel.
So no.
So this control uh, this talk or exchange of information between control plane and data plane does
not happen in a real time whenever the request.
So whenever there is any configuration change, then only it puts the data to the sidecar, right.
But with every request they do not make a network call.
One famous service mesh is Istio, the sidecar proxy, which we have mentioned in Istio.
It is known as envoy, the configuration manager, which validate the configuration which we get from
user.
It is known as galley, The traffic controller, which takes care of, uh, putting this information
to sidecar.
Proxy is known as pilot in Istio.
And the security manager known as Citadel.
Okay, so different naming, but the functionality is generally the same.
And also, one more thing before we cut off.
Now let's say microservices a want to talk with microservices B earlier you used to have URL and port
number.
Now do you need that.
No.
Now it will just say that hey I want to talk to microservice B, that's all.
You just give the application name sidecar proxy here will uh here we also have one like in the configuration
right.
It has the service discovery configuration also service discovery configuration also.
Okay.
So sidecar proxies generally has this information which is provided through configuration manager and
traffic controller.
So sidecar proxy.
Now it's load balancer.
Use that service discovery data.
Find out a best instance to forward it and just forward it to the another microservice B okay.
And it's sidecar proxy intercepted and then forwarded to the microservices B okay.
So first thing is there is no network call between microservice one and sidecar proxy.
It's just an interception.
So whatever the requests going out of microservice one sidecar proxy automatically intercept it.
So you don't also need to integrate with sidecar proxy.
So with this Kubernetes pod it's work out of the box.
So if you have any question with this we can discuss further.
But this is very good.
Uh interview question and also for understanding purpose I like this very question uh much okay.
Thank you guys.
Bye.
